
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 74575 ***


                             CYCLOPEDIA OF
                             ILLUSTRATIONS
                          FOR PUBLIC SPEAKERS

          CONTAINING FACTS, INCIDENTS, STORIES, EXPERIENCES,
                   ANECDOTES, SELECTIONS, ETC., FOR
                      ILLUSTRATIVE PURPOSES. WITH
                           CROSS-REFERENCES

                        COMPILED AND EDITED BY
                  ROBERT SCOTT AND WILLIAM C. STILES
                   _Editors of The Homiletic Review_

  [Illustration]

                       FUNK AND WAGNALLS COMPANY
                          NEW YORK AND LONDON
                                 1911




                           COPYRIGHT 1910 BY
                        FUNK & WAGNALLS COMPANY
              (_Printed in the United States of America_)
                        Published, March, 1911




                                PREFACE


In estimating the prospectus of this work a well-known clergyman
exprest the judgment that “A book of fresh illustrations should be
made as often, at least, as once in ten years.” A somewhat extensive
inquiry, to which many responses were received, has convinced the
editors and publishers that a liberal use is made of collections of
illustrations, by clergymen and other public speakers, and that to meet
their requirements a new collection at this time would be welcomed by
those whose functions and duties involve public speaking, teaching and
preaching.

Paxton Hood’s definitive epigram, “Illustrations are windows,” has
often been repeated in varied forms. William Morely Punshon states the
relation of the illustration to the truth it is designed to serve when
he says, “The illustration is but the handmaid in the palace, while
truth is the queen upon the throne.” This is to affirm under a figure
of speech that every good illustration should take a place of service,
and is valuable only as it assists the understanding in grasping the
truth more easily and apprehending it more vividly.

An illustration is regarded as something more than a brief figure of
speech, as a simile or a metaphor, tho these may be often expanded to
the scope and value of illustration proper. An illustration, as found
in this work, whether narrative, fact or series of facts, an incident,
anecdote, story, experience, or description, is intended to be such as
may be used to make clear the truth or principle indicated in the title.

Inasmuch as the same story, incident or array of facts frequently may
be found to suggest more than one thought, principle or truth, a system
of cross-references has been used referring under some given head to
other titles: or, other titles are inserted separately, with which the
illustration may be used, with a cross-reference to the illustration.
It is hoped that this system of cross-references may prove an
acceptable and valuable feature of the book.

As the title implies, this collection is intended to be serviceable to
all public speakers. It has not been the intention either to include
or to exclude illustrations because they are specifically religious.
We are all coming to recognize that the sacredness or the secularity
of anything and everything, is far more a matter of attitude of mind
in men than in any specific quality in things themselves. Whether an
illustration prove to be secular or sacred is to be determined probably
by the use made of it, the purpose which it serves, and the spirit in
which it is employed.

It will be noted that here and there in the book there have been
included entries that, on the face of them, do not seem to be in
the strictest sense illustrations. We think, however, that careful
examination will show even these to be susceptible of illustrative
uses. Sometimes an array of facts, or a condensed table of statistics,
may furnish exemplary instances and throw needed light on a topic.

In inserting poetry, we have tried to adhere to the principle that only
poetry that constitutes a real illustration and is quotable, should
find place in this work. A poem in its entirety has rarely been used;
in most cases only such verses appear as seem to apply to the truth
under illustration. The aim, farther, has been to include only such
poetry as seemed to us to have true poetical merit. Sometimes this has
meant only a pathetic or witty turn of the verse, or a flash of genuine
humor, or the metrical illumination of a deep or important truth. In
considering this kind of illustration, even tho verse brought to our
attention might seem to furnish an apt illustration, if it did not
appear to possess poetical merit also, it has been excluded.

The intention of the editors, through the years required to bring this
collection together, has been to present a book of newly-prepared
illustrations that, for the variety it includes, would not soon be
surpassed. They represent research that has extended through hundreds
of different publications, books, magazines, papers, of almost every
class and kind. The result is a sifted residue, after inspection of
a much greater number that have been excluded. It may be doubted if
any similar work represents an equal amount of painstaking labor. No
illustration has been included without the agreement of at least two
competent examiners upon its availability.

The editors, however, are quite well aware that the value and utility
of such a work and of the particular illustrations, will be different
with different individuals, according to the illimitable differences of
view-point, of taste, and of judgment that exist in any given circle
of readers. The illustrations from nature will be more welcome to
some, those from personal experience to others, and to still others,
the extracts from science, or from common life, or from religious
activities and experience will appeal more strongly. Some extracts
supply the element of humor, which, rightly used, is a valuable asset
in public address. The editors feel confident that the variety here
provided will meet the different needs and tastes of the readers of
this volume.

The alphabetical order of arrangement has seemed to make unnecessary
any topical or word indexes. Any one desiring to examine all the
illustrations closely applicable to any given topic, may do so
conveniently by means of the cross-references. For instance, under
“Missions” will be found cross-references to such illustrations,
entered under other titles, as apply also to missions.

For the special use of preachers, many of the illustrations have a
reference to a Scripture text, and two text indexes are provided. One
of these is in the order of the Biblical books, chapters and verses; by
turning to which the number of the illustration with which each text
belongs will guide to the alphabetical place where the illustration
occurs. This index will at once show whether a given text is or is not
directly illustrated in the volume. The other text-index, arranged in
the order of the topics, includes the text itself, in whole or in part,
so that in turning from a text reference in the body of the book to
this index, one can determine immediately whether the text promises to
be useful in connection with the topic.

The illustrations will be found to have a secondary value in
educational directions. A large amount of useful information is
conveyed in compact paragraphic form. Facts from almost every
department of human knowledge are to be found in these pages. Science
has furnished many, including habits and doings of beasts and birds,
curious and wonderful feats of surgery; ways and wonders of plant
life; useful and valuable data from astronomy; the work of inventors,
explorers and discoverers, etc., etc. From history and geography have
been gleaned many important, curious, interesting incidents, facts,
and sayings. From common and current life there will be found hundreds
of useful and usable things worthy of being remembered. Literature has
yielded a goodly store of her treasures. The religious life, especially
as exprest in missionary work, is represented in numerous paragraphs.
In short, merely as a store of useful information, this work should
prove valuable.

Unusual care has been taken to make this work accurate. It is apparent
without discussion that a public speaker does not wish to use, and
ought not to use, even by way of illustration, material that is
unreliable in any facts cited, or inaccurate in any statement made.
Wherever there has been any doubt as to facts, authorities, or
statements, the rule has been to exclude everything subject to such
doubt.

This effort at accuracy has led to the practise of citing the source
of each extract, wherever it could be ascertained. The occasional
exceptions to this have been cases where the matter was a generally
circulated piece of news or some extract wherein, from the nature of
the case, no question of accuracy or authorship could be involved. In
addition to this, there are a few extracts, the sources of which we
have been unable to trace.

It is intended that the topic heads shall cover about all the subjects
which a preacher or public speaker would ever wish to discuss. But
it should be said that these topics are not intended as titles for
discourses. They are topics that may sometimes serve as titles, but
that are primarily subjects or ideas rather than titles. They are
intended to be fairly comprehensive of the range of ideas of the
average speaker, and may often represent only a subhead or a passage in
his discourse.

If it happens that the user of this book, coming upon these topic heads
from new angles and view-points, should not at first deem them exactly
descriptive or definitive of the extract with which they appear, it
need only be said that such difference of instinct and judgment is
inevitable to different men, and if more is seen in any extract than
the editors saw, that will add nothing to the confest sense of their
undoubted fallibility.

The manner in which such a work as this shall be used will be
determined--and should be--by each user for himself. It may not be
wholly irrelevant, however, to suggest that so far as the prose
extracts are concerned, they are mostly susceptible of profitable
paraphrasing and of every sort of manipulation that may fit them to
the particular use desired. The chief profit in a book of illustration,
doubtless, will be found, for every really vital user, far more in
the suggestive values of the extracts than in the actual material
furnished. Many of them are in themselves seeds and nuclei capable
to be developed into a discourse. They should serve to set the mind
working, provide the stimulus for new thought, and lead on to something
far greater than they contain.

The editors have been assisted in the gathering of this collection
by the staff of contributors whose names are given below, and whose
valuable aid we take pleasure in acknowledging: The Rev. G. L. Diven;
S. B. Dunn, D.D.; the Rev. William Durban (London); the Rev. Benjamin
L. Herr; Mrs. Delavan L. Pierson; the Rev. David Williamson (London);
Miss Z. Irene Davis. Editorial acknowledgment is extended also to
Franklin Noble, D.D., for valuable suggestions, and to many clergymen
who kindly responded to our request for criticism and comment upon the
prospectus.

For permission to use extracts from copyrighted books, granted by
publishers and authors, who, for the most part, have responded kindly
to our requests, we desire to extend our thanks. Among those so
responding are the following:

Felix Adler; H. R. Allenson, Ltd.; American Unitarian Association; D.
Appleton & Company; The Arakelyan Press; The Arcadian Press; A. C.
Armstrong & Son; Edward William Bok; Character Development League;
Dodd, Mead & Company; Doubleday, Page & Company; James J. Doyle;
Duffìeld & Company; E. P. Dutton & Company; Eaton & Mains; Paul Elder
& Company; Ginn & Company; Gospel Publishing House; D. C. Heath &
Company; Hodder & Stoughton; Henry Holt & Company; Houghton, Mifflin
Company; J. B. Lippincott Company; Longmans, Green & Company; Lutheran
Publication Society; The MacMillan Company; A. C. McClurg & Company;
Morgan & Scott, Ltd.; Neale Publishing Company; The Pilgrim Press;
G. P. Putnam’s Sons; Fleming H. Revell Company; Seeley & Company,
Ltd., London; Sherman, French & Company; Small, Maynard & Company,
Inc.; Smith, Elder & Company; Frederick A. Stokes Company; Student
Volunteer Movement; Sunday-school Times Company; E. B. Treat & Company;
University of Chicago Press; The Young Churchman Company; Young
People’s Missionary Movement.

A great many of the illustrations have been taken from periodical
literature, including monthly and weekly magazines and daily and weekly
papers, both secular and religious. We desire to acknowledge our
obligation to all these publications, some of which are here indicated:

Ainslee’s Magazine; Andover Review; Appleton’s Magazine; Atlantic
Monthly; Art Amateur; Belford’s Magazine; Book Chat; Building;
Cassell’s Family Magazine; Chamber’s Journal; Christian Statesman;
Christian World Pulpit; Collier’s Weekly; Contemporary Review;
Cornhill Magazine; Cosmopolitan; Country Life in America; Decorator
and Furnisher; Electricity; Electrical Review; English Illustrated
Magazine; Everybody’s Magazine; Forest and Stream; Fortnightly Review;
Forward; Good Health; Grace and Truth; Hampton’s Magazine; Harper’s
Bazar; Harper’s Magazine; Harper’s Weekly; Health; Home Magazine;
Indoors and Out; Journal of Education; Judge’s Magazine; Leslie’s
Weekly; Life; Lippincott’s Magazine; McClure’s Magazine; Machinery;
Magazine of American History; Metropolitan Magazine; Missionary
Review of the World; Munsey’s Magazine; National Geographic Magazine;
National Monthly; New England Magazine; Nineteenth Century; North
American Review; Open Court; Overland; Penn Monthly; Phrenological
Journal; Popular Science Monthly; Pottery Gazette; Progress Magazine;
Puck; Putnam’s Monthly; Reader Magazine; Review of Reviews; School
Journal; Scribner’s Magazine; St. Nicholas; Strand Magazine; Success
Magazine; Sunday-school Times; Sunset Magazine; System; Temple Bar; The
American Journal of Theology; The American Magazine; The Argonaut; The
Automobile Magazine; The Booklover’s Magazine; The Bookman; The Century
Magazine; The Chautauquan; The Critic; The Delineator; The Epoch; The
Forum; The Gentleman’s Magazine; The Independent; The Literary Digest;
The Metropolitan; The Mid-Continent; The Monthly Review; The National
Magazine; The Outlook; The Popular Science Monthly; The Quiver; The
Reader; The Saturday Evening Post; The Scrap Book; The Statesman;
The Sunday Magazine; The Survey; The Tennesseean; The World To-day;
Washington Craftsman; Revue Scientifique; Wide Awake; Wide World
Magazine; Woman’s Home Companion; World’s Work; Youth’s Companion.




            Cyclopedia of Illustrations For Public Speakers


                             ABBREVIATION

   I remember a lesson in brevity I once received in a barber’s
   shop. An Irishman came in, and the unsteady gait with which
   he approached the chair showed that he had been imbibing of
   the produce of the still run by North Carolina moonshiners.
   He wanted his hair cut, and while the barber was getting him
   ready, went off into a drunken sleep. His head got bobbing from
   one side to the other, and at length the barber, in making a
   snip, cut off the lower part of his ear. The barber jumped
   about and howled, and a crowd of neighbors rushed in. Finally,
   the demonstration became so great that it began to attract
   the attention of the man in the chair, and he opened one eye
   and said, “Wh-wh-at’s the matther wid yez?” “Good Lord!” said
   the barber, “I’ve cut off the whole lower part of your ear.”
   “Have yez? Ah, thin, go on wid yer bizness--it was too long,
   anyhow!”--HORACE PORTER.

    (1)


                              ABDICATION

“Uneasy lies the head that wears a crown.” If men who are obscure and
quiet and tempted to envy the glory of kings they might profitably
meditate on the speech that Shakespeare puts into the mouth of Richard
II while he abandons his crown:

    I give this heavy weight from off my head
    And this unwieldy scepter from my hand,
    The pride of kingly sway from out my heart;
    With mine own tears I wash away my value,
    With mine own hands I give away my crown,
    With mine own tongue deny my sacred state,
    With mine own breath release all duteous oaths.

    (2)


   =Aberration, Mental=--See ABSENT-MINDEDNESS.


   =Abhorrence, Instinctive=--See ANTIPATHY, INSTINCTIVE.


                               ABILITIES

   Lord Bacon says that “natural abilities are like natural plants
   that need pruning by study.” Conversely untrained talents are
   like wild plants that degenerate when left to themselves.

    (3)


   =Ability Commanding Trust=--See CONFIDENCE.


   =Ability, Determining=--See WORTH, ESTIMATING.


                           ABILITY, GAGE OF

   Mr. Edmund Driggs, of Brooklyn, gives a motto that came into
   his life like an influence, and greatly helped him toward
   success. At the age of fifteen he left home to engage with an
   older brother in the freighting business on the Hudson River.
   The first duty he performed on the vessel was to go aloft to
   reef the pennant-halyards through the truck of the topmast,
   which was forty feet above the top of the mainmast, without any
   rigging attached thereto. When the sailing-master had arranged
   the halyards over his shoulder, with a running bowline under
   his right arm, he ordered him aloft. The new sailor looked at
   the sailing-master and then aloft, and then asked the question,
   “Did anybody ever do that?” “Yes, you fool,” was the answer. “Do
   you suppose that I would order you to do a thing that was never
   done before?” The young sailor replied, “If anybody ever did
   it, I can do it.” He did it. That maxim has been his watchword
   through life. Tho he is now over seventy years of age, he is
   still engaged in active business life, and whatever enterprise
   he undertakes the watchword still is, “If anybody ever did it, I
   can do it.” (Text.)--WILBUR F. CRAFTS, “Successful Men
   of To-day.”

    (4)


                           ABILITY, USELESS

   Plutarch says that a traveler at Sparta, standing long upon one
   leg, said to a Lacedæmonian, “I do not believe you can do as
   much.” “True,” said he, “but a goose can.”

There are many who have abilities to do greater things who are content
to boast of some accomplishment as useless as standing on one leg.

    (5)


   =Abnormality=--See DEFORMITY.


                           ABSENT-MINDEDNESS

   A Canadian farmer, noted for his absent-mindedness, went to town
   one day and transacted his business with the utmost precision.
   He started on his way home, however, with the firm conviction
   that he had forgotten something, but what it was he could
   not recall. As he neared home, the conviction increased, and
   three times he stopt his horse and went carefully through his
   pocketbook in a vain endeavor to discover what he had forgotten.
   In due course he reached home and was met by his daughter, who
   looked at him in surprize and exclaimed, “Why, father, where
   have you left mother?”--_Leslie’s Weekly._

    (6)

       *       *       *       *       *

There are many firm believers in the theory that most people are crazy
at times, and facts seem to support their belief. The following will
possibly remind a number of our readers of some incident in their
experience, which at the time of its occurrence seemed to them most
unaccountable:

   A wise man will step backward off a porch or into a mud-puddle,
   a great philosopher will hunt for the spectacles that are in his
   hand or on his forehead, a hunter will sometimes shoot himself
   or his dog. A working girl had been feeding a great clothing
   knife for ten years. One day she watched the knife come down
   slowly upon her hand. Too late she woke out of her stupor with
   one hand gone. For a few seconds her mind had failed, and she
   sat by her machine a temporary lunatic and had watched the knife
   approach her own hand. A distinguished professor was teaching
   near a canal. Walking along one evening in summer, he walked as
   deliberately into the canal as he had been walking along the
   path a second before. He was brought to his senses by the water
   and mud and the absurdity of the situation. He had on a new suit
   of clothes and a new silk hat, but, tho the damage was thus
   great, he still laughs over the adventure. Our mail collectors
   find in the iron boxes along the streets all sorts of papers and
   articles which have been put in by some hand from whose motions
   the mind has become detached for a second. A glove, a pair of
   spectacles, a deed, a mortgage, a theater ticket, goes in, and
   on goes the person, holding on to the regular letter which
   should have been deposited. This is called absent-mindedness,
   but it is a brief lunacy.--_Public Opinion._

    (7)


   =Absentees=--See EXCUSES.

   =Absolution=--See FORGIVENESS, CONDITIONS OF.


                              ABSORPTION

   The Italian mothers get for nurses the most beautiful persons,
   because they believe that by constantly looking into such faces
   the infant will unconsciously take on some of the beauty of the
   nurse.

This may be a fiction; but we do know that where there is mutuality of
interest and deep affection, persons thrown closely together, in the
process of the years, take on traits each of the other.

    (8)

   See BEAUTIFUL LIFE, SECRET OF; LANGUAGE, FORMATION OF.


   =Absorption in One’s Art=--See THOROUGHNESS.


                          ABSORPTION, MENTAL

   The anecdote is a familiar one in the history of painting, of
   the artist employed upon the frescoes of a dome, who stept
   back to see from a better point of view the work which he had
   done, and became so absorbed in comparing the scenes which
   he had depicted with the forming idea as it lay in his mind,
   that still proceeding backward he had reached the edge of the
   lofty scaffolding, when a pupil, observing his instant peril,
   and afraid even to shout to him, rushed forward and marred the
   figures with his trowel, so calling back and saving the master.
   The mind, engrossed in its own operation, had forgotten the
   body, and was treating it as carelessly as the boy treats the
   chip which he tosses on the wave.--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (9)

   See ASSIMILATION.


                         ABSTAINERS LIVE LONG

   An interesting investigation was conducted by the _Associated
   Prohibition Press_ in April, 1909, as to the causes of death
   in the city of Chicago of all men who had reached the age of
   sixty years and over, and whose death was reported during that
   month. Every death reported in Chicago during this month of
   April was carefully investigated for the purpose of securing an
   accurate memorandum of the age, nationality, and cause of death.

   Out of 155 men concerning whose deaths this data was obtained,
   it was found that 73 had been total abstainers, 75 moderate
   drinkers, and 4 were said to be heavy drinkers. The age ranged
   from 60 to 92 years.

   On the basis of the facts secured in this investigation, the
   drinking men, by their use of alcoholic poison, shortened their
   lives nearly four years.

   In the aggregate, therefore, by means of its subtle poison,
   alcoholic liquor helped to deprive these 79 victims of a total
   of more than 334 years of active life which their abstaining
   contemporaries had lived to enjoy.--“American Prohibition
   Yearbook.”

    (10)


   =Abstinence as an Example=--See EXAMPLE.


                       ABSTINENCE, DIFFICULTY OF

   There was a certain ancient colored gentleman who was addicted
   to the habit of excessive drink. When asked why he didn’t quit
   he replied:

   “It’s dis here way, boss. Jus’ as long as I kin quit when I
   wants ter I ain’t in no danger. Jus’ as soon as I fin’ I kain’t
   quit I’s gwine t’ swar off.”

   There are numbers of drinking men who keep right on because they
   think they can stop when they want to. They frequently find out
   too late that they can not quit.

    (11)


                            ABSURD NOTIONS

   I stumbled upon an English book of etiquette the other day. In
   it I found this curious statement: “A gentleman may carry a
   book through the streets if it is not wrapt, but if it is done
   up in wrapping paper it becomes a parcel and must be carried by
   a servant.” The wrapping-paper makes a wonderful difference.
   And so absurd are the fashionable ideas of refinement and
   gentility.--OBADIAH OLDSCHOOL, _The Interior_.

    (12)


                       ABSURDITY IN NOMENCLATURE

   All who have seen the ancient maps of North Carolina will
   remember Win-gin-da-coa as its name. This was the first
   thing said by a savage to Raleigh’s men. In reply to the
   question, “What is the name of this country?” he answered,
   “Win-gin-da-coa.” It was afterward learned that the North
   Carolina aborigine said in this phrase, “Those are very
   fine clothes you have on.” And so North Carolina carried a
   fashion-plate label to unsuspecting readers.--EDWARD
   EGGLESTON.

    (13)


   =Abundance and Incompetency=--See OPPORTUNITIES UNUTILIZED.


   =Acceleration of Life=--See FAST LIVING.


   =Accident as a Minor Thing=--See MISFORTUNE, SUPERIORITY TO.


   =Accident=--See LOSS AND PROFIT.


                         ACCIDENTAL DISCOVERY

   Argand, the inventor of the famous lamp which bears his name,
   had been experimenting for some time in trying to increase the
   light given out by his lamp, but all to no purpose. On a table
   before him one night lay an oil-flask which had accidentally
   got the bottom broken off, leaving a long-necked, funnel-shaped
   tube. This Argand took up carelessly from the table and
   placed--almost without thought, as he afterward related--over
   the flame. A brilliant white light was the magical result.
   It is needless to add that the hint was not lost by the
   experimenter, who proceeded to put his discovery into practical
   use by “inventing” the common glass lamp-chimney. Hundreds of
   discoveries which have been heralded to the world as the acme of
   human genius have been the result of merest accident--the auger,
   calico printing and vulcanization of rubber being among the
   number.--St. Louis _Republic_.

    (14)

   See DISCOVERY, ACCIDENTAL; INSULATION.


                          ACCIDENTAL SUCCESS

   Protogenes, the Greek painter, was an impatient man. In painting
   a picture of a tired, panting dog, he met with satisfactory
   success except that he failed in every attempt to imitate the
   foam that should have been seen on the dog’s mouth. He was so
   much provoked over it, that he seized the sponge with which he
   cleansed his brushes, and threw it against the picture with the
   intention of spoiling it. It happened to strike on the dog’s
   mouth, and produced, to the astonishment and delight of the
   painter, the very effect that he had labored so persistently to
   imitate.--FRANK H. STAUFFER, _The Epoch_.

    (15)


                               ACCIDENTS

Man’s increasing wisdom and growing regard for his fellow man will some
day result in a better state of things than is here indicated:

   According to an estimate made by Mr. Frederick L. Hoffman, of
   the Prudential Insurance Company, the annual rate of fatal
   accidents in American cities is between 80 and 85 in each
   100,000. On a basis of 80,000,000 population, this would mean
   a yearly loss of about 65,000 lives. By the same authority it
   is calculated that 1,664,000 persons are badly injured every
   year, and that some 4,800,000 receive wounds of a less serious
   character. We have a yearly list of fatalities somewhere between
   64,000 and 80,240, and of serious maimings of 1,600,000; whereas
   two great armies, employing all the enginery of warfare, could
   succeed in slaughtering only 62,112 human beings yearly. (Text.)

    (16)


                             ACCOMMODATION

   According to a story told by Rev. J. Ed. Shaw, of Hammonton, N.
   J., a man should always adapt himself to local conditions if he
   wants to slip along without falling over his feet.

   Some time ago, Mr. Shaw said, a little colored congregation
   over in Jersey invited a preacher friend of his to occupy their
   pulpit at the coming Sunday evening service, and the good
   dominie, wishing to encourage the colored brethren, readily
   complied.

   Reaching the church where he was the only paleface present, the
   preacher delivered a sermon full of helping advice, made an
   eloquent prayer, and then announced that the service would be
   closed by singing the hymn, “Wash Me and I Shall Be Whiter Than
   Snow.” At this point one of the darksome congregation rose to
   his feet.

   “Look heah, pahson,” said he impressively. “Yo’ will hab to
   ’scuse me, but I rise to a point ob ordah.”

   “What is it?” asked the preacher, with large symptoms of
   surprize floating over his features.

   “It am dis way,” replied the parishioner. “Yo’ hab ebidently
   made a mistake in de crowd. Dis am a cull’ed congregashun, an’
   s’nce all de pump watah an’ sof’ soap in de county can’t make de
   words ob dat hymn come true, I jes’ wish dat yo’ would change
   her to some uddah tune.”--Philadelphia _Evening Telegraph_.

    (17)


                            ACCOMPLISHMENT

   Among the influential public men who were wild in their
   unreasonable prejudice against Grant and cried aloud for his
   dismissal, was Col. Alexander K. McClure, of Philadelphia.
   He could not see how the President could sustain himself if
   he persisted in retaining Grant. So he went to Washington to
   counsel with Mr. Lincoln, and urge him in the name of the people
   to remove Grant without delay. I will let the Colonel tell in
   his own way the result of his visit to the President:

   “I appealed to Lincoln for his own sake to remove Grant at once,
   and in giving my reasons for it I simply voiced the admittedly
   overwhelming protest from the loyal people of the land against
   Grant’s continuance in command.... When I had said everything
   that could be said from my standpoint, we lapsed into silence.
   Lincoln remained silent for what seemed a very long time. He
   then gathered himself up in his chair and said in a tone of
   earnestness that I shall never forget: ‘I can’t spare this man;
   he fights.’ That was all he said, but I knew that it was enough,
   and that Grant was safe in Lincoln’s hands against the countless
   hosts of enemies.”--COL. NICHOLAS SMITH, “Grant, the
   Man of Mystery.”

    (18)

   See WORK VERSUS WORKER.


   =Accounting=--See BALANCE, A LOOSE.


   =Accuracy=--See PUNCTILIOUSNESS IN LITTLE THINGS.


                        ACCUSATION INSUFFICIENT

   When Numerius, governor of the Narbonnoise Gaul, was impeached
   for plunder of his province, he defended himself, and denied
   the charge and explained it away so skilfully that he baffled
   his accusers. A famous lawyer thereupon exclaimed, “Cæsar, who
   will ever be found guilty, if it is sufficient for a man to deny
   the charge?” To which Julian retorted, “But who will appear
   innocent, if a bare accusation is sufficient?” (Text.)

    (19)


                              ACHIEVEMENT

The Denver _Republican_ recently contained this brief account of a
farmer working heroically on a one-man railroad, and remarked that it
is typical of the individual spirit that has achieved great things in
the West:

   The story of the Kansas farmer, who, with a scraper and a pair
   of mules, is building a fifty-mile railroad, would indicate that
   the supply of courageous men is not entirely exhausted.

   The farmer who is tackling this tremendous job alone and who is
   serenely indifferent to all the jeers of his neighbors, scorned
   to admit defeat when he could not interest any one with capital
   in the road which he deemed necessary. He went to work with such
   material as he had at hand and, somehow, even without seeing the
   man or knowing aught of his project, one can not help sharing
   the farmer’s belief that he is to “carry the thing through.”

    (20)


                            ACKNOWLEDGMENT

   Pyrrhus, King of Epirus, was kind and courteous to his army,
   both to officers and soldiers. He shared the toils and hardships
   of those who were under his command. He gave them, too, their
   share of the glory which he acquired, by attributing his success
   to their courage and fidelity. At one time, after some brilliant
   campaign in Macedonia, some persons in his army compared his
   progress to the flight of an eagle. “If I am an eagle,” replied
   Pyrrhus, “I owe it to you, for you are the wings by means of
   which I have risen so high.”

    (21)


                             ACQUAINTANCES

   If we could prove by statistics the number of acquaintances a
   man had fifty years ago, and those which the modern man has,
   the difference would be enormous. The tendency is everywhere to
   enlarge one’s circle--ambitious people with discernment, but the
   foolish, blindly, without any interest or inclination to guide
   them. I once heard a woman announce with pride, “I have 2,000
   visits to make this winter.” She flaunted this fact before her
   less favored friends, who had only 1,000 names on their visiting
   lists. Could there be anything more futile than this thirst for
   increasing one’s bowing acquaintances? What useless ballast
   are these interminable lists, in which no place is left for an
   hour’s intelligent or affectionate intercourse. The habit of
   going from drawing-room to drawing-room gives certain persons
   a style in conversation that is as flat as a well-drest stone,
   not one spontaneous word in it, not an angle, not a defined
   form!--DORA MELEGARI, “Makers of Sorrow and Makers of
   Joy.”

    (22)


   =Acquiescence in Temptation=--See DESIRES, INORDINATE.


                      ACQUIESCENCE TO PROVIDENCE

   Each branch of a vine is bound to a certain point of its wall or
   its conservatory. It is not growing just where and how it would
   spontaneously and naturally choose, but is affixt there contrary
   to its natural bent, in order that it may catch the sunbeams
   at that point and cover that spot with beautiful foliage and
   luscious fruit.

   Sorrow is like the nail that compels the branch to grow in that
   direction; inevitable circumstance is like the rough strip of
   fiber which bends the branch, and pain is like the restraint
   which is suffered by the branch which would have liked to wander
   at its own will. We are not to murmur or repine at our lot in
   life, but are to remember that God has appointed it and placed
   us there. (Text.)

    (23)


                              ACQUISITION

An interesting side-light on the kind of men who attend the classes of
the city evening technical schools was given by a commissioner of the
Board of Education in a recent address to young men:

   “I visited the forge-room” (said he), “where a class of
   twenty-five young blacksmiths were shaping and welding various
   models of iron bars and iron blades. It was an inspiring scene.
   No man, however indolent or indifferent to the world’s work,
   could have looked on without having his ambitions revived. The
   glowing metal yielded to the hammer blows of these youthful
   artizans, because interest in their work and a desire to become
   producers directed their bare and brawny arms. I walked about
   unnoticed. They felt no interest in commissioners of education.
   At one of the anvils I noticed a particularly fine, well-built
   young fellow. He was wholly absorbed in his work, so when I
   picked up the book he had partly hidden under his cap on his
   toolbench it did not attract his attention. What book do you
   think it was? Oh, no, not a treatise on tool-work in iron; that
   would have been fine. It was something even finer than that. The
   book was a copy of Vergil’s ‘Eneid’ and the marginal notes on
   the pages show that he was as ambitious to acquire a taste for
   good literature as for the possession of technical skill.”--New
   York _Press_.

    (24)


                       ACTING, ACTOR AFFECTED BY

The following remembrance of Henry Irving is given by his friend and
associate Ellen Terry:

   My greatest triumph as Desdemona was not gained with the
   audience, but with Henry Irving! He found my endeavors to accept
   comfort from Iago so pathetic that they brought the tears to his
   eyes. It was the oddest sensation, when I said, “Oh, good Iago,
   what shall I do to win my lord again?” to look up--my own eyes
   dry, for Desdemona is past crying then--and see Henry’s eyes at
   their biggest, luminous, soft, and full of tears! He was, in
   spite of Iago and in spite of his power of identifying himself
   with the part, very deeply moved by my acting.

    (25)


                            ACTION, INSTANT

   I have seen ten years of young men who rush out into the world
   with messages, and when they find how deaf the world is, they
   think they must save their strength and get quietly up on some
   little eminence from which they can make themselves heard.
   “In a few years,” reasons one of them, “I shall have gained a
   standing, and then I shall use my power for good.” Next year
   comes, and with it a strange discovery. The man has lost his
   horizon of thought. His ambition has evaporated; he has nothing
   to say. The great occasion that was to have let him loose on
   society was some little occasion that nobody saw, some moment
   in which he decided to obtain a standing. The great battle of
   a lifetime has been fought and lost over a silent scruple. But
   for this the man might, within a few years, have spoken to the
   nation with the voice of an archangel. What was he waiting for?
   Did he think that the laws of nature were to be changed for him?
   Did he think that a “notice of trial” would be served on him? Or
   that some spirit would stand at his elbow and say, “Now’s your
   time?” The time of trial is always. Now is the appointed time.
   And the compensation for beginning at once is that your voice
   carries at once. You do not need a standing. It would not help
   you. Within less time than you can see it, you will have been
   heard. The air is filled with sounding-boards and the echoes are
   flying. It is ten to one that you have but to lift your voice to
   be heard in California, and that from where you stand. A bold
   plunge will teach you that the visions of the unity of human
   nature which the poets have sung were not fictions of their
   imagination, but a record of what they saw. Deal with the world,
   and you will discover their reality. Speak to the world, and you
   will hear their echo.--JOHN JAY CHAPMAN.

    (26)


   =Activity and Light-giving=--See LIGHT AND ACTIVITY.


   =Activity and Thought-training=--See THINKING, HOW COORDINATED.


   =Actors Become Preachers=--See EVANGELISM, UNUSUAL.


                             ADAPTABILITY

As an illustration of adaptability to circumstances and the willingness
to take chances in order to achieve results of any kind, of the men who
open up a new country to civilization, a recent incident is instructive:

   A little schooner reached Seattle recently from Nome, on Bering
   Sea. She had made the voyage down during the most tempestuous
   season of the year in the North Pacific, and had survived storms
   which tried well-found steamships of the better class. Yet there
   was not a man on board, from the captain down, who had ever
   made a voyage at sea, save as passengers, on a boat running to
   Alaska. There were no navigating instruments on board save a
   compass and an obsolete Russian chart of the North Pacific.

   These men wanted to come out for the winter, and there was no
   other way within their means to accomplish the trip. They got
   hold of the schooner and they started with her. They were not
   seamen or navigators, simply handy men who were accustomed to
   doing things for themselves. This was out of the routine, but
   they did it.

    (27)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The men who made the voyage down from Nome in a little schooner
   without any previous knowledge of seamanship probably saw
   nothing remarkable in the feat. They were used to doing things
   that had to be done with the material that came to hand, whether
   they knew anything about how it should be done or not.--Seattle
   _Post-Intelligencer_.

    (28)


                              ADAPTATION

If we are unable to bring our surroundings into subjection to our
desires, we can often moderate our desires to the measure of our
surroundings.

   The colonel of a volunteer regiment camping in Virginia came
   across a private on the outskirts of the camp, painfully
   munching on something. His face was wry, and his lips seemed to
   move only with the greatest effort.

   “What are you eating?” demanded the colonel.

   “Persimmons, sir.”

   “Good heavens! Haven’t you got any more sense than to eat
   persimmons at this time of the year? They’ll pucker the very
   stomach out of you!”

   “I know, sir. That’s why I’m eatin’ them. I’m tryin’ to shrink
   me stomach to fit me rations.”

    (29)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Numerous are the animals that, escaping persecution, have
   adapted themselves to the altered conditions. Was this
   adaptation unconscious on their part? There was room and to
   spare when it was in progress, and did not choice enter into the
   problem? Or was it mere chance that they stayed near or even in
   habitations, and with no more volition than the autumn leaves
   that now filled the air?

   It may be mere coincidence, but the skunk that lived under the
   doorstep yet gave no sign of its presence; the raccoon that
   occupied a clothes-line box and was not suspected; the opossum
   that lived in a hollow tree within ten feet of the house
   and was discovered only by accident--all suggest to me that
   they considered the several situations, and realizing their
   advantages in the matter of food supply, were willing to take
   the chances; yet a fine bit of primitive woodland was not fifty
   yards away.--C. C. ABBOTT, New York _Sun_.

    (30)

       *       *       *       *       *

Why should we not adapt our moral seed-sowing for character to the
different types of men as carefully as agriculturists do after close
study of the different types of soil?

   “The greatest surprize to the agriculturist,” said Mr. David
   G. Fairchild, “and one which will throw into confusion the
   calculations of the economist, will come through the utilization
   of what are now considered desert lands, for the growing of
   special arid-land crops requiring but a fraction of the moisture
   necessary for the production of the ordinary plants of the
   eastern half of the United States, such as corn and wheat.

   “We are finding new plants from the far table-lands of Turkestan
   and the steppes of Russia and Siberia, which grow luxuriantly
   under such conditions of aridity that the crops of the
   Mississippi Valley farms would wither and die as tho scorched by
   the sirocco.”--_The Technical World._

    (31)

   See POISONS AND MEDICINE.


   =Adaptation, Lack of=--See ACCOMMODATION.


                          ADAPTING THE BIBLE

   The postulate that any portion of the Scripture is as
   serviceable as any other portion for the purpose of stimulating
   and nourishing the moral and religious growth of children,
   regardless of their age--the Bible itself refutes this
   postulate. In 1 Peter 2:2, “As new-born babes desire the sincere
   milk of the word.” We have a very plain assertion of the need of
   different food for different stages of growth in the spiritual
   life, the assertion clothing itself in terms of the food for the
   several stages of the physical life. In 1 Cor. 3:2, “I have fed
   you with milk and not with meat,” we have the same truth set
   forth by another writer, who employs the same physical analogy.
   When we turn to Hebrews we find the author employing in more
   detail the same analogy to teach the same fact--Heb. 5:12–14.
   Here we really have granted, embryonically, it may be, the
   principle that is striving to-day for recognition at the hands
   of the religious teaching world.--A. B. BUNN VAN ORMER,
   “Studies in Religious Nurture.”

    (32)


   =Adding More=--See MARGINS OF LIFE.


   =Adjustment=--See UNFITNESS.


   =Admiration, Unspontaneous=--See PRAISE-SEEKING.


   =Adolescence=--See LOYALTY, SPIRIT OF.

   =Adolescent Folly=--See KINDNESS.


   =Adoption=--See SYMPATHY, PRACTICAL.


                          ADVANCEMENT, RAPID

When things all move so fast, Christian men must be wide-awake if they
would have morals and religion keep pace with material progress:

   Such is the pace at which we live to-day that, while millions
   of people in this country have not yet got up to the stage of
   “civilization” represented by the use of gas, but when they
   encounter it casually employ it suicidally, other millions have
   outgrown and discarded it, and will have none of it even for a
   curling-iron or a chafing-dish, let alone for lighting. To put
   it briefly, the use of electricity for lighting in New York
   State alone has increased over 2,000 per cent in ten years, and
   the use of electricity for power, also from central stations,
   has increased in the decade nearly 1,200 per cent. And yet the
   electricians are inclined to think they have only just started
   in. (Text.)--_The Electrical World and Engineer._

    (33)


                    ADVANTAGE, WORKING TO THE BEST

If we all worked at what we could do best, not only would more work be
done, but most of life’s friction and worry would be eliminated.

   The English are a ballad-loving people, and few singers could
   sing a ballad like Antoinette Sterling. She sometimes, but
   rarely, sang classical music. She knew where she was the
   strongest, and she wisely kept in that direction, with the
   result that she shared the same popularity which the English
   people extended to Sims Reeves, the favorite tenor balladist. It
   was enough to insure the success of a new song to have it sung
   by Madam Sterling, and success in London means heavy royalties
   to singer as well as composer. (Text.)--Chicago _Tribune_.

    (34)


                               ADVERSITY

The whole tenor of the New Testament inculcates the principle of
resignation under adverse conditions, and more. For the follower of
Jesus Christ must not be merely a passive sufferer but a strenuous and
persevering combatant against opposing force.

   Tourists along the shores of the Mediterranean express their
   surprize at the insipidity of the fishes served up for food.
   This flavorless quality is easily accounted for. The fish around
   the shores of Spain, Italy, Greece, and Asia Minor are mostly
   caught in the quiet lagoons or calm waters of protected bays and
   gulfs, where they swim lazily and slowly, or bask indolently in
   the quietude. How different is the life of battling with storm
   and tempest on the part of the creatures that inhabit the rough
   waters around the Orkneys, the Shetlands, and the Hebrides of
   Scotland! Fish caught there is always delicious. (Text.)

    (35)

   See AFFLICTION PRODUCING VIRTUE.


                       ADVERSITY HELPING GENIUS

   There is an apprenticeship to difficulty, which is better for
   excellence sometimes than years of ease and comfort. A great
   musician once said of a promising but passionless young singer
   who was being educated for the stage: “She sings well, but she
   lacks something which is everything. If she were married to a
   tyrant who would maltreat her and break her heart, in six months
   she would be the greatest singer in Europe.”--JAMES T.
   FIELDS.

    (36)


                              ADVERTISING

Mr. George Hibbard discovers a new literature in process of
development, born of the needs of modern advertising. In _The
Booklover’s Magazine_ he writes:

   The modern advertisement is worth looking at, whether it is the
   sounding proclamation of some big corporation, with facts and
   figures both weighty and impressive, or the light eye-catching
   notice of some simple trade or contrivance. All forms of
   literary composition find place in the advertising pages:
   history, story, verse. Many advertisements measure up to the
   test of good literature. In truth, there is often an uncommon
   amount of character in them. A word here or a phrase there is
   often singularly vivid as “local color,” and behind many an
   advertisement it is possible to see a vigorous personality. Nor
   are there lacking in this new literature qualities of humor,
   both intentional and unintentional. One generation writes
   an epic, another an advertisement; who shall say that one
   manifestation is not as important as the other.

    (37)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Going into a green field surrounded by beautiful trees, we were
   once shocked by seeing painted upon a large rock the injunction,
   “Prepare to meet thy God.” This was the work of some ardent
   religionist who was entirely unconscious that this was a holy
   place. God was there, altho he knew it not, else he would not
   have intruded in that sacred place with his vulgar application
   of a venerable injunction.--_The Christian Register._

    (38)

   See PUBLICITY; WHOLENESS.


   =Advertising, Novel=--See FOOLISHNESS SOMETIMES IS WISDOM.


                      ADVERTISING, PERSISTENCY IN

   Any patent medicine, however worthless, will make its advocate
   rich if he will only persist in advertising it. The dear
   public succumb in the long run. They can not stand up under
   the continuous force of his big-lettered suggestions. They
   rather enjoy being humbugged. What splendid advantage the big
   stores take of this weakness on our part! All they need do is
   to keep offering suggestions of cheapness or of the supposed
   worth and imagined usefulness of their wares, and multitudinous
   innocent ones, whose sole interests the advertiser seems to
   have at heart, take hold of the tempting bait.--ROBERT
   MACDONALD.

    (39)


   =Advice, Bad=--See SUCCESS TOO DEAR.


   =Advice, Benefiting by=--See MIND-HEALING.


                          ADVICE, DISREGARDED

   We were so sure in the Philippines that we could not get too
   much light that we built our houses to admit it in floods, and
   contemptuously disregarded the English and Dutch experience of
   two centuries. We called people lazy if they hid themselves at
   midday, and we bravely went abroad in the full glare of the
   light. Even the heavily pigmented Filipinos darkened their
   houses, and were astounded at our foolishness in doing what they
   did not dare to do. Collapse always came in time--if not a real
   collapse, at least a degree of destruction of nervous vigor
   which demanded a return to darker climates to escape chronic
   invalidism or even death.--Major CHARLES E. WOODRUFF,
   _Harper’s Weekly_.

    (40)


                           ADVICE, UNWELCOME

   Andy McTavish was “no feelin’ juist weel,” so he went to the
   doctor and stated his complaints.

   “What do you drink?” demanded the medico.

   “Whusky.”

   “How much?”

   “Maybe a bottle a day.”

   “Do you smoke?”

   “Yes.”

   “How much?”

   “Two ounces a day.”

   “Well, you give up whisky and tobacco altogether.”

   Andy took up his cap and in three steps reached the door.

   “Andy,” called the doctor, “you have not paid for my advice!”

   “Ahm no’ takkin’ it,” snapt Andy, as he shut the door behind him.

    (41)


                          AERIAL ACHIEVEMENT

Gen. Count Ferdinand von Zeppelin, in the world’s first aerial liner,
at the ripe age of nearly seventy-two years, performed a magnificent
flight of 250 miles from Friedrichshafen to Düsseldorf. The New York
_Times_ says of him:

   He presents one of the finest examples in history of effort
   concentrated on a single object, of failure after failure borne
   with courage, of refusal to give up, of final triumph.

   He has had a career which in the case of most men would have
   been regarded as sufficiently full of honor many years ago.
   He served in the American civil war as a cavalry officer on
   the Union side, becoming an intimate friend of the late Carl
   Schurz, and when he returned to Europe he took part in the
   Austro-Prussian War of 1866 and in the Franco-Prussian War of
   1870.

   As late as 1907 such words as these could be written about Count
   von Zeppelin and generally regarded as describing him: “He has
   sacrificed half a century of time, his wealth, his estates, his
   reputation, his happiness, his family life, in a futile attempt
   to solve the problem of flying. It is practically certain that
   after fifty years of unexampled perseverance Count Zeppelin
   is doomed to complete failure. There is something unspeakably
   tragic in the fate of this high-minded aristocrat.”

   His failures continued for some time after this verdict was
   written, but at length the world was startled by the splendid
   flights made by his dirigible “No. 4,” and when that vessel was
   wrecked in August, 1908, the German Government and the German
   people combined to aid the old patriot and inventor to make good
   his loss.

    (42)


   =Aeroplane=--See TENDENCIES, INHERITED.


   =Affection, Disinterested=--See FRIENDS, KEEPING.


   =Affection for Animals=--See ANIMALS, ABSURD FONDNESS FOR.


   =Affections Misplaced=--See ANIMALS, ABSURD FONDNESS FOR.


                              AFFLICTION

   At some famous pottery works a visitor selected for purchase an
   exquisite model of Dante and Beatrice. The price was, however,
   far greater than he anticipated, being treble what had been
   asked for some other specimens of the potter’s handiwork. “Why
   is this so much more expensive?” he asked. “Because it has
   passed more often through the furnace,” was the reply.

   God sends His children sometimes through repeated furnaces of
   affliction in order that their characters may attain a rare and
   priceless perfection. (Text.)

    (43)


                      AFFLICTION PRODUCING VIRTUE

The editor of _The United Presbyterian_ writes thus:

   On a recent evening during a severe hailstorm we opened our
   door to observe the progress of the storm, and were surprized
   to find the air laden with the odor of nasturtiums. There
   were porch-boxes containing nasturtiums, geraniums and other
   flowering and foliage plants. Beds of nasturtiums were by the
   street’s side and at the side of the lawn, and into these the
   hail had fallen, beating down and breaking the vines until the
   porch floor and the ground beneath the boxes and the vines were
   covered with ends of broken sprays, leaves and bright bits of
   yellow and gold, scarlet and maroon of the mangled flowers. But
   the air was full of the sweetness of the crusht and wounded
   vines. They were returning good for evil in the misfortune that
   had come upon them. For every wound that the hail had made
   they were giving out the fragrance of a beautiful spirit. Tho
   bruised and broken, they were filling the whole atmosphere with
   an aroma which was in beautiful contrast to the adverse rain of
   hail that still rattled on the roofs and walks and fell among
   the prostrate vines. Blest is that life which can yield its
   sweetest fragrance when the storms are at their highest. We have
   all known men and women who, when lacerated with pain, prostrate
   under the hand of God, have made the very atmosphere of the
   sick-room redolent with the incense of Christian hope and trust.

    (44)


                          AFFLICTION, USES OF

The Scriptures say that “It is good to be afflicted,” and experience
has her own confirmatory word:

   The waters go out over the fields, leaving a waste, where
   pasture and corn-field had been, and then gradually subside.
   What have the waters done? Have they ruined the labors of the
   year? They who do not know Egypt might think so indeed, but the
   peasants know that to that yearly flood they owe the fertility
   of the land, that it is that which makes the crops grow and
   enables them to gather in the harvest. So it is with the river
   of the grace of God: the waters at times overflow their banks,
   and one seems to be overwhelmed; the soul is borne down by the
   flood, all her fruitful land is covered by the waters--waters
   of desolation, bereavement, affliction. “I am overwhelmed,
   undone; God has smitten me; my life is all wrong; I shall never
   smile again.” Nay, the flood which terrifies thee is the water
   of the river of God. The water is washing away the impurity of
   thy soul, giving thee fertility; the fruits of love, patience,
   charity, shall grow now; it is not a flood of desolation, but of
   blessing and fruitfulness. (Text.)

    (45)


   =Afraid of the Darkness=--See FEAR OF MAN.


                      AFFLUENCE, THE PRINCIPLE OF

   The structural provisions of the living organism are not built
   on the principle of economy. On the contrary, the superabundance
   of tissues and mechanisms indicates clearly that safety is the
   goal of the animal organism. We may safely state that the living
   animal organism is provided in its structures with factors of
   safety at least as abundantly as any human-made machine.

   The moral drawn from these facts is that to govern the supply
   of tissue and energy by means of food, nature indicates for
   us the same principle of affluence which controls the entire
   construction of the animal for the safety of its life and the
   perpetuation of its species. In other words, we should eat
   not just enough to preserve life, but a good deal more. In
   such cases safety is more important than economy.--S. J.
   MELTZER, _Science_.

    (46)


                                  AGE

   “There are in the suburbs of Rome,” says _Cosmos_, “two
   farms where antique medals are made in large quantities. This
   would seem to be a singular agricultural product, yet nothing
   is more exact. The people who devote themselves to this odd
   industry cause to be swallowed by turkeys coins or medals
   roughly struck with the effigy of Tiberius or Caligula. After
   remaining for some time in the bodies of the fowls, the little
   disks of metal become coated with a remarkable ‘patina.’ If this
   coating were only the result of the gastro-intestinal voyage,
   it would be easy to secure it by treating the coins to be aged
   with dilute hydrochloric acid, for instance. But the mechanical
   action of the tiny stones contained in the gizzard is added
   to the purely chemical action of the gastric juice, partially
   effacing the figures and toning down the hardness of the
   features. It is to be feared that some of the specimens in our
   public collections have been obtained by this curious process.”

    (47)


                          AGE AND EXPERIENCE

We might find an argument against the “dead line” in such facts as the
following:

   We make a great mistake in America when we lay our older men on
   the shelf, while they are still in their prime as counselors.
   Benjamin Franklin was sent to France as a minister when he was
   seventy years old, and the best work he did for his country,
   he did between his seventy-first and seventy-eighth years.
   The State of New York had an absurd statute which removed
   Chancellor Kent from the bench because he was sixty-five. After
   that time he wrote and published his “Commentaries,” a book
   recognized as one of the most important books in the study of
   our jurisprudence. So much good did the country gain from one of
   the frequent absurdities of New York legislation. In England,
   Lord Palmerston and Mr. Gladstone are recent instances, well
   remembered, of the force which statesmen gain, almost by the law
   of geometrical progression, from their memory of the experiments
   which fail, from what I call organic connection with the
   national life of the last two generations.--EDWARD EVERETT
   HALE, _The Chautauquan_.

    (48)


                            AGE AND ORATORY

This is the description of one who had the privilege of hearing
Gladstone, in the autumn of 1896, make his last great oration in
Liverpool:

   See the old man with slow and dragging steps advancing from the
   door behind the platform to his seat before that sea of eager
   faces. The figure is shrunken. The eyelids droop. The cheeks are
   as parchment. Now that he sits, his hands lean heavily upon his
   staff. We think, “Ah, it is too late; the fire has flickered
   out; the speech will be but the dead echo of bygone glories.”
   But lo! he rises. The color mantles to his face. He stands
   erect, alert. The great eyes open full upon his countrymen. Yes,
   the first notes are somewhat feeble, somewhat painful; but a
   few minutes pass, and the noble voice falls as the solemn music
   of an organ on the throng. The eloquent arms seem to weave a
   mystic garment for his oratory. The involved sentences unfold
   themselves with a perfect lucidity. The whole man dilates.
   The soul breaks out through the marvelous lips. Age? Not so!
   this is eternal youth. He is pleading for mercy to an outraged
   people, for fidelity to a national obligation, for courage and
   for conscience in a tremendous crisis. And the words from the
   Revised Version of the Psalms seem to print themselves on the
   listener’s heart: “Thou hast made him but little lower than God,
   and crownest him with glory and honor.” (Text.)

    (49)


                             AGE, THE NEW

Frederick Lawrence Knowles writes this optimistic outlook for the
future:

    When memory of battles,
      At last is strange and old,
    When nations have one banner
      And creeds have found one fold,

    When the Hand that sprinkles midnight
      With its powdered drift of suns
    Has hushed this tiny tumult
      Of sects and swords and guns;

    Then Hate’s last note of discord
      In all God’s worlds shall cease,
    In the conquest which is service,
      In the victory which is peace! (Text.)

    (50)


                         AGENTS, INSIGNIFICANT

   Nature shows how the weakness of God is immeasurably stronger
   than men; so does history with equal clearness. The oft-quoted
   saying, “Providence is always on the side of the big
   battalions,” is one with an imposing sound, but it is disproved
   by history over and over again. Some of the decisive battles
   of the world were won by the small battalions. More than once
   has the sling and the stone prevailed against the Philistine
   army. Battles are won by the big brain; and wherever that may
   be, slight weapons and resources are sufficient for splendid
   victories. Now the all-wise God sits on the throne of the world,
   and we are often filled with astonishment at the insignificant
   agents with which heaven smites its foes, and causes victory
   to settle on the banners of right and justice. The world’s
   Ruler defeated Pharaoh with frogs and flies; He humbled Israel
   with the grasshopper; He smeared the splendor of Herod with
   worms; on the plains of Russia, He broke the power of Napoleon
   with a snowflake. God has no need to dispatch an archangel;
   when once He is angry, a microbe will do. (Text.)--W. L.
   WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (51)


                              AGGREGATION

A drop of rain is a very little thing, but here is a calculation of a
rainfall:

   The rain fell in buckets, the thunder racketed terribly, and the
   lightning drew zigzag lines of bright gold upon the violet sky.

   “So you, too, don’t know what an inch of rain is exactly,”
   said the weather clerk, as he looked at his rain-measuring
   instrument. “Very few people do, it seems. I’ll explain it to
   you.

   “An acre is 6,272,640 square inches. An inch of water on an acre
   is therefore 6,272,640 cubic inches. That amount, at 227 cubic
   inches to the gallon, equals 22,000 gallons, or 220,000 pounds,
   or 100 tons.

   “An inch of rain is, in other words, rain falling at the rate of
   100 tons to the acre.”

    (52)


                              AGGRESSION

Many fail through over-caution. A course duly weighed, venture all.

   In a more recent number of Robert L. Taylor’s magazine, a
   leading article speaks of Admiral Farragut, at Mobile. The
   _Brooklyn_ hesitated to go forward. “What’s the matter?”
   asked the Admiral. “Torpedoes,” replied the captain. “D----n
   the torpedoes,--full speed against the enemy!” He meant no
   profanity, but it was a time for action of the most pronounced
   sort. The best protection against the enemy’s fire is a
   well-directed fire from our own guns.

   General Grant in the civil war of 1861–65 said, “The best
   defense of Washington is an army before Richmond.” These
   epigrammatic maxims are the best accepted fighting rules known
   to warfare to this day.

    (53)

       *       *       *       *       *

Colonel Henderson, of the British Army, says in the _Science of War_:

   The Federal strategy in the last year of the war, with Grant
   in command and Sherman his lieutenant, stands out in marked
   relief to the disjointed, partial, and complicated operations
   of the previous years.... Grant seems to have been the first to
   recognize that, as von Moltke puts it, the true objective of
   a campaign is the defeat of the enemy’s main army.... General
   Sheridan’s summing up of the handling of the Army of the
   Potomac, before Grant took command, is to the point: “The army
   was all right; the trouble was that the commanders never went
   out to lick anybody, but always thought first of keeping from
   getting licked.” Grant, like Moltke, was always ready to try
   conclusions.

    (54)


   =Agitation=--See QUIET, STUDY TO BE.


                         AHEAD OF CIRCUMSTANCE

In life there are those who keep just ahead of the breaking wave, and
others who halt and it engulfs them. Marshall P. Wilder describes in
the extract below the skill of the Hawaiian natives with their canoes:

   We donned bathing-suits and took a surf ride. This is the
   national sport and, being at all times sufficiently thrilling,
   must be taken in a high surf, a tremendous experience. The boats
   are long, deep and very narrow canoes, with an outrigger at one
   side to keep them from tipping.

   Two natives, and they must be skilled, usually operate these
   canoes. Three or four passengers at a time are taken out, the
   natives rowing with broad paddles a quarter or half mile from
   the shore, where they wait for a large wave. With the nicest
   precision they keep ahead of it, just as it breaks, and are
   carried smoothly in, poised on its crest. I sat facing the
   stern, and the experience was something to remember, the swift
   bird-like swoop of the canoe, with the white, seething wall of
   water behind it, apparently just about to engulf us. After we
   were safely on shore again they told us stories of how the wave,
   if the rowers miscalculate, will break over the canoe, driving
   it to the bottom.--“Smiling ’Round the World.”

    (56)


   =Aim=--See SPIRITUAL GUNNERY.


                              AGRICULTURE

The rate at which the people of the United States have been carrying
out the divine command to replenish the earth and subdue it may be seen
at a glance by the diagram below: (Text.)

  [Illustration: A POPULAR KIND OF RURAL UPLIFT]

   The total value of farm products in the United States from
   $2,000,000,000 in 1880 to nearly $8,000,000,000 in 1900.

    (55)


   =Ahead, Looking=--See PREVISION.


                               AIM HIGH

The following inspiring advice is by Willis Warren Kent:

            Aim high!
    Watch the target with an eye
      Steady as the eaglet’s glance;
    Fit your arrow, let it fly,
      Fear no failure, no mischance!
            Aim high!

            Aim high!
    Tho your arrows hurtle by,
      Miss the target, sail below,
    Pick them up, once more to try,
      Arms a-tangle, eyes aglow!
            Aim high!

            Aim high!
    Learn to laugh and cease to sigh,
      Learn to hide your deep chagrin!
    Life’s a test at archery
      Where the true of heart will win!
            Aim high!

    (57)


                              AIMLESSNESS

   Washington Irving tells a story of a man who tried to jump over
   a hill. He went back so far to get his start for the great leap
   and ran so hard that he was completely exhausted when he came
   to the hill, and had to lie down and rest. Then he got up and
   walked over the hill.

   A great many people exhaust themselves getting ready to do their
   work. They are always preparing. They spend their lives getting
   ready to do something which they never do.

   It is an excellent thing to keep improving oneself, to keep
   growing; but there must be a time to begin the great work of
   life. I know a man who is almost forty years old, who has not
   yet decided what he is going to do. He has graduated from
   college, and taken a number of post-graduate courses--but all
   along general lines. He has not yet begun to specialize. This
   man fully believes he is going to do great things yet. I hope he
   may.--O. S. MARDEN.

    (58)

       *       *       *       *       *

   “And he that walketh in the darkness knoweth not whither he
   goeth.” What a picture comes into the mind as by the aid of the
   imagination we read these words. I think of a vast forest, with
   its winding trail, its deep shadows, its tangled underbrush,
   its decayed trunks here and there. I think of myself at the end
   of a long day’s tramp. No opening in sight. The sun has gone
   down. The light coming through the openings above growing less
   and less. The sky overcast. Soon it is dark. I miss the trail.
   I get down on my hands and knees to feel for it. Presently no
   sound but the cracking of the underbrush. Suddenly it dawns
   upon me that I am lost in the woods. All sense of direction is
   gone. Any way I turn may be the wrong way. I am utterly aimless.
   Jesus says the end of the selfish man is utter aimlessness. That
   as a man in the woods wanders without aim so the selfish man
   wanders in the moral universe without aim, not knowing whither
   he goeth.--ROBERT MCLAUGHLIN.

    (59)

       *       *       *       *       *

   It is told of Professor Huxley that once, when the British
   Association met in Dublin, he arrived late in the city; fearing
   to miss the president’s address, he rushed from the train to
   the station platform, jumped on a jaunting-car, and said to the
   Celt in charge, “Drive fast; I’m in a hurry.” Cabby whipt up his
   horse and proved to be another Jehu. Suddenly it flashed upon
   the passenger, bounding about the vehicle in a most undignified
   way, to shout to the driver above the rattle of the car, “Do you
   know where I want to go?” “No, yer honor,” was Pat’s laughing
   rejoinder, “but I’m driving fast all the while.”

There are many who keep up a great activity, but who, for want of a
definite aim or a great guiding ideal, accomplish little good in the
world.

    (60)


                            AIR, EFFECTS OF

   Attention has been called to some curious effects of rarefied
   and of condensed air on human respiration. On high mountains
   some persons experience distressing shortness of breath, one
   result of which is that they are unable to whistle. Precisely
   the same effect is sometimes produced by the condensed air in
   caissons and diving-bells. Laborers working in comprest air
   frequently find, however, that their powers of exertion are
   increased as long as the atmospheric pressure is not more than
   double that of ordinary air; but beyond that point unpleasant
   effects are experienced after the men have left the working
   shafts and returned into the open air. On the other hand, high
   atmospheric pressure in the case of persons not doing manual
   labor has been found to act as a mental stimulus, increasing the
   impulse to talk.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (61)


   =Air of Sea as Purifier=--See PURIFICATION.


   =Airship Flight=--See AMBITION.


                            ALCOHOLIC BAIT

   In May, 1880, on Platt River, in Benzie County, Michigan, an old
   man was showing an Indian named Pokagon how to catch pigeons in
   their nesting-place. He led him to an open pole-pen which he
   called his bait-bed, where he scattered a bucketful of wheat.
   While the two watched in ambush the pigeons poured into the pen
   and gorged themselves. “Come on, you redskin,” said the old man
   to Pokagon, and they caught about a hundred fine birds. “How did
   you do it?” asked the Indian in surprize. With one eye half shut
   and a sly wink with the other, the old man replied: “That wheat
   was soaked in whisky.”

How many other than birds have been snared by the same whisky-bait!

    (62)


                                 ALIBI

   A distinguished jurist once sat down to a course dinner. He had
   been waited on by one servant during two courses. He had had the
   soup. Another servant came to him and said, “Sir, shall I take
   your order? Will you have some of the chicken soup?” “No, sir;
   I have been served with chicken soup, but the chicken proved an
   alibi.”--GEORGE M. PALMER.

    (63)


   =Alleviation=--See DRUDGERY RELIEVED.


                           ALLUREMENT, FATAL

   The Judas-tree, so-called, is a remarkable plant. Its blossoms
   appear before its leaves, and are a most brilliant crimson. The
   flowers flaming forth, attract innumerable insects. The bee,
   for instance, in quest of honey, is drawn to it. But searching
   the petals for nectar, it imbibes a fatal opiate. Beneath this
   Judas-tree the ground is strewn with the victims of its deadly
   fascination.

    (64)

       *       *       *       *       *

    Flicker-flick,
    Above the wick,
    Burned the candle flame.
    Through the open window-shutter
    Young Moth Miller came.
    Straight he fluttered toward the yellow,
    Bright, alluring thing.
    And, alas, poor foolish fellow
    Scorched his downy wing!
    Little ones, take lesson from him,
    Be not overbold;
    Stop and think that glittering things
    Are not always gold. (Text.)

    --ELIZABETH HILL.

    (65)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The Venus fly trap is small and shaped as if you placed your two
   open palms side by side. Its surface is plastered with honey and
   the other palm has sharp needles pointing outward. The “silly
   fly” yields to the attraction of the sweets and is immediately
   shut in as the two palms close upon him. He is instantly stung
   to death by the needles.

How alluring evil can appear at times. Satan himself can pose as an
angel of light. Evil often presents its most subtle attraction to the
young. But sin in any guise is the soul’s deathtrap. (Text.)

    (66)


   =Allurement to Evil=--See SIN, FASCINATION OF.


   =Allurement to Good=--See FISHERS OF MEN.


                              ALMSGIVING

    That is no true alms which the hand can hold;
    He gives only worthless gold
      Who gives from a sense of duty;
    But he who gives but a slender mite
    And gives to that which is out of sight,
      The hand can not clasp the whole of his alms. (Text.)

    --LOWELL.

    (67)


                              ALTAR, THE

   In the old days a father built a home for his family. It was
   complete in every part, but the altar around which they gathered
   in prayer was not yet set in place. The mother wished it in
   the kitchen; there she was perplexed with her many cares.
   The father wished it in his study: God seemed nearer to him
   among his books. The son wished it in the room where guests
   were received, that the stranger entering might see that they
   worshiped God. At last they agreed to leave the matter to the
   youngest, who was a little child. Now the altar was a shaft of
   polished wood, very fragrant, and the child, who loved most of
   all to sit before the great fire and see beautiful forms in the
   flames, said, “See, the fire-log is gone; put the altar there.”
   So, because one would not yield to the other, they obeyed, and
   the altar was consumed, while its sweet odors filled the whole
   house--the kitchen, the study, and the guest hall--and the child
   saw beautiful forms in the flames.--DAVID STARR JORDAN,
   “The Religion of a Sensible American.”

    (68)


                               ALTRUISM

   There is in Cambridge, Mass., an elm-tree of moderate size,
   which has, according to the estimates of Professor Gray, a leaf
   surface of 200,000 square feet. This tree exhales seven and
   three-quarter tons of water every twelve hours. A forest of 500
   such trees would return to the atmosphere nearly 4,000 tons in
   the same time.

Our lives should be like this tree, shedding their refreshment
continually. (Text.)

    (69)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Good men are not meant to be simply like trees planted by
   rivers of waters, flourishing in their own pride and for their
   own sake. They ought to be like the eucalyptus trees which
   have been set out in the marshes of the Campagna, from which a
   healthful, tonic influence is said to be diffused to countervail
   the malaria. They ought to be like the Tree of Paradise, “whose
   leaves are for the healing of nations.”--HENRY VAN DYKE.

    (70)

       *       *       *       *       *

    The flower blooms not for itself at all,
      Its joy is the joy that diffuses:
    Of beauty and balm it is prodigal,
      And it lives in the life it freely loses;
        No choice for the rose but glory or doom,
        To exhale or smother, to wither or bloom.
                  To deny
                  Is to die.

    (71)

   See VICARIOUSNESS.


                         ALTRUISM AMONG BIRDS

   An old gentleman in New England told me of a case he once
   observed. Noticing a little flock of chewinks or towhee buntings
   who came about the house for food that was thrown out, he saw
   that one was larger than the others and that they fed him. To
   satisfy his curiosity, he threw a stone with such accuracy that
   his victim fell, and on picking him up he was surprized to see
   that the bird’s mandibles were crossed so that he could not
   possibly feed himself. The inference was obvious; his comrades
   had fed him, and so well that he had grown bigger than any of
   them.--OLIVE THORNE MILLER, “The Bird Our Brother.”

    (72)


                          ALTRUISM IN INSECTS

   A gentleman, while reading the newspaper, feeling bothered by
   the buzzing of a wasp about his head, beat it down. It fell
   through the open window and lay on the sill as if dead. A few
   seconds afterward, to his great surprize, a large wasp flew
   on to the window-sill, and after buzzing around his wounded
   brother for a few minutes, began to lick him all over. The sick
   wasp seemed to revive under this treatment, and his friend then
   gently dragged him to the edge, grasped him round the body and
   flew away with him. It was plain that the stranger, finding a
   wounded comrade, gave him “first aid,” as well as he could, and
   then bore him away home. This is one of many cases in which the
   law of altruism is traceable in the world of living things below
   man. How much more should intelligent man exercise this spirit
   of helpfulness in the rescue of his fallen brother.

    (73)


                          ALTRUISM IN NATURE

   The flower does not live for itself. Beautiful, fragrant-making,
   the tree an incense-holder, hang the apple-blossoms for a day;
   to-morrow they have let go their hold upon the tree and are
   scattered over the ground in order that the fruit may grow. The
   fruit guards the seed until it is mature, then the fruit goes
   to decay that the seed may be released; the seed gives up its
   life that a new tree may come. What a glorious parable is this:
   life for life, the old dying for the new; every tree in the
   orchard, every grain-stalk in the corn-field, every dusty weed
   by the roadside living for others and ready to die for others.
   The doctrine of unselfish love and of sacrifice comes to us
   fragrant with the odor of ten thousand blossoms and rich with
   the yellow fruitage of ten thousand harvests. Self-preservation
   is no longer the first law of nature. The first law seems to
   be preparation for that which is coming next.--JOHN K.
   WILLEY.

    (74)


                          ALUMNI OCCUPATIONS

   Beloit College has been coeducational for about fifteen years.
   The following list of what its women alumni are doing is given
   in a current number of the college paper:

   Eighty-eight are teaching.

   Fifty-four are married.

   Nineteen are at home.

   Three are librarians.

   Four are graduate students.

   Two are college instructors.

   One is supervisor of domestic economy.

   One is vice-president of a bank.

   One is a nurse.

   One is an editor.

   One is an assistant postmaster.

   One is a visitor of Associated Charities.

   One is superintendent of north-west district of United Charities
   in Chicago.

   Two are high-school principals.

   One is a student in the Baptist Missionary Training School,
   Chicago.

   One is the industrial secretary of the Y. W. C. A., Detroit.

   One is a bookkeeper in a bank.

   One is a teacher in North China Union Woman’s College, American
   Board.

   One is nursery visitor of United Charities in Chicago.

   One is a private tutor.

    (75)


                    AMBASSADOR, THE MINISTER AS AN

   The minister must be something as well as do something. He must
   consistently make an impression upon everybody he approaches
   that he is in something unlike the ordinary run of men. I do
   not mean that he should be sanctimonious, for that repels; it
   must be something in his own consciousness. My father was a
   clergyman. One of the most impressive incidents of my youth
   occurs to me. He was in a party of gentlemen, when one of them
   used a profane word unthinkingly. With a start he turned to my
   father, and said, “I beg your pardon, Dr. Wilson.” My father
   said, very simply and gently, “Oh, sir, you have not offended
   me.” The emphasis he laid upon that word “me” brought with it a
   tremendous impression. All present felt that my father regarded
   himself as an ambassador of someone higher; their realization
   of it showed in their faces.--WOODROW WILSON, _The
   Churchman_.

    (76)


   =Ambidexterity Favored=--See ASYMMETRY.


                               AMBITION

   When William the Conqueror was born his first exploit was to
   grasp a handful of straw, and to hold it so tenaciously in
   his little fist that the nurse could scarcely take it away.
   This infantile prowess was considered an omen, and the nurse
   predicted that the babe would some day signalize himself by
   seizing and holding great possessions. And he did.

But what, after all, were many of the possessions seized by the Norman
Conqueror but a handful of straw. And so are not a few of the conquests
of earthly ambition, no matter how tenaciously held as well as ardently
won. Over many a pile of wealth and massed achievement might be
written: “A handful of straw in a baby fist!”

    (77)

       *       *       *       *       *

Daisy Rinehart expresses a very common feeling in this poem:

    I’m tired of sailing my little boat
      Far inside of the harbor bar;
    I want to be out where the big ships float--
      Out on the deep, where the great ones are!

    And should my frail craft prove too slight
      For storms that sweep those wide seas o’er,
    Better go down in the stirring fight
      Than drowse to death by the sheltered shore!

    --_Munsey’s Magazine._

    (78)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Glenn H. Curtiss, by his successful and spectacular flight of
   150 miles from Albany to this city (May 29, 1910), has jumped
   into the first rank of aviators.

   Curtiss began life as soon as he was of a workable age as a
   newsboy. He is still remembered as a lad always ambitious in
   sport, particularly if there were any mechanical contrivances to
   be worked out that might add to his triumph. His ambition was
   to “arrive” in anything he undertook, and to do this he was not
   content to accept the suggestions of others, but sought to work
   out his own original ideas.

   When about ten or eleven years old he was very much perturbed
   over the fact that one of his chums owned a hand-sled that
   always coasts down-hill faster than his own. Curtiss set to work
   to construct a sled that would outdistance his rival’s, and
   after weeks of quiet work had the satisfaction of leaving his
   rival far behind.

   From sleds he turned his attention to bicycles.

   “Why not attach a gasoline engine to it?” he asked one day, and
   immediately he went to work, using the model of an old gasoline
   engine to work on, and was soon able to amaze his neighbors by
   chugging through the country on his hand-made machine. The fever
   of the motorcycle was right on him, and that early success led
   him to establish a bicycle shop which soon grew from a mere
   repair shop to a plant for the manufacture of motor-cycles, and
   the success of the improved Curtiss motor was what gave him his
   first real fame.

   In 1907 he took one of his machines to Ormond, Fla. It was
   built solely for speed, for it was Curtiss’ aim to go faster
   than any one else. The judges, greatly to the disappointment
   of the inventor, pronounced it a freak and not eligible, with
   the orthodox machines. It was a big disappointment, but Curtiss
   announced that he would make an exhibition mile trial, and, to
   the amazement of the experts, he covered the distance in the
   remarkable time of 0:26 2/5, the fastest mile that had ever been
   traveled by a man.

   From making motors for bicycles it was an easy step to try the
   construction of light gasoline motors for flying purposes.
   Captain Thomas S. Baldwin was the first to see the possibilities
   of the Curtiss motor for balloon purposes, and at his suggestion
   Curtiss built one for Baldwin’s dirigible airship. This was
   successful, and others were built.

   Then followed the success of the Wright brothers with
   heavier-than-air machines and the craze for the heavier-than-air
   type abroad. Curtiss’ little shop at Hammondsport became the
   headquarters for the aeronautical students of this country and
   aerial flight received its first big impetus, next to that given
   by the Wrights when Dr. Alexander Graham Bell, in November,
   1907, organized his Aeronautic Experiment Association, and
   Curtiss was one of its six members.

    (79)

       *       *       *       *       *

   By the sheer force of his ambition Pope won his place, and
   held it, in spite of religious prejudice, and in the face of
   physical and temperamental obstacles that would have discouraged
   a stronger man. For Pope was deformed and sickly, dwarfish in
   soul and body. He knew little of the world of nature or of
   the world of the human heart. He was lacking, apparently, in
   noble feeling, and instinctively chose a lie when the truth
   had manifestly more advantages. Yet this jealous, peevish,
   waspish little man became the acknowledged leader of English
   literature.--WILLIAM J. LONG, “English Literature.”

    (80)


                          AMBITION, A WORTHY

Dr. William H. Thomson, speaking of the tubercle bacillus in his book,
“What is Physical Life?” says:

   For ages upon ages this mighty microorganism has waged a
   cruel destructive war upon the human race. After fifty years
   of observation and study of its ghastly doings, I can say
   that I would rather have the power to cause the tears shed on
   its account to cease than to be the greatest official or the
   greatest owner on the earth.

    (81)


                           AMERICA IN SYMBOL

   In the hour when for the first time I stood before the cataracts
   of Niagara, I seemed to see a vision of the fears and hopes of
   America. It was midnight, the moon was full, and I saw from the
   suspension bridge the ceaseless contortion, confusion, whirl,
   and chaos which burst forth in clouds of foam from that immense
   central chasm which divides the American from the British
   dominion; and as I looked on that ever-changing movement, and
   listened to that everlasting roar, I saw an emblem of the
   devouring activity, and ceaseless, restless, beating whirlpool
   of existence in the United States. But into the moonlight
   sky there rose a cloud of spray twice as high as the falls
   themselves, silent, majestic, immovable. In that silver column,
   glittering in the moonlight, I saw an image of the future of
   American destiny, of the pillar of light which should emerge
   from the distractions of the present--a likeness of the buoyancy
   and hopefulness which characterize you both as individuals and
   as a nation.--ARTHUR PENRHYN STANLEY.

    (82)


                           AMERICA, THE NAME

   The meaning of the name Amerigo has been often discust,
   the only thing certain being that it is one of those names
   of Teutonic origin, like Humberto, Alfonzo, Grimaldi, or
   Garibaldi, so common in northern Italy, which testifies to the
   Gothic or Lombard conquest. Americ, which occurs as early as
   744 A.D., is probably a contracted form of the name
   Amalaric, borne by a king of the Visigoths who died in 531. A
   Bishop Emrich was present at the Council of Salisbury, in 807,
   and an Americus Balistarius is mentioned in the Close Rolls
   (thirteenth century). It has been conjectured that the stem is
   im, from which we get the name of Emma. The meaning of this is
   not known with certainty, tho Ferguson thinks it may denote
   “strife” or “noise.” Since, however, the name is probably of
   Gothic origin, and since the Amalungs were the royal race of the
   Ostragoths, it is more likely that the stem is “amal,” which
   was formerly thought to mean “without spot,” but is now more
   plausibly connected with the old Norse “aml,” labor, work. The
   suffix “ric,” cognate with rex, reich, and rick, means “rich” or
   “powerful,” and, therefore, the most probable signification of
   Amerigo is “strong for labor.”--ISAAC TAYLOR, _Notes
   and Queries_.

    (83)


   =American Citizenship=--See IGNORANCE.


                         AMERICAN OPPORTUNITY

   A young Irishman who settled in Chicago forty years ago, and
   found his first employment as driver of a baker’s wagon, has
   just retired from business a millionaire. An Italian, then aged
   sixteen, who reached Trenton, N. J., thirteen years ago with
   barely sufficient money to set up in business as a bootblack,
   now owns twenty-three houses, and announces his intention
   to take up real estate. Both these passages of contemporary
   biography are recorded in the same newspaper. Probably they will
   attract little attention or remark. That is to be explained
   by the happy circumstance that such progress from poverty is
   no exceptional thing in this country, and any community could
   match the stories with many that are equally striking.--Boston
   _Transcript_.

    (84)


   =American Prosperity=--See PROSPERITY AS AN ADVERTISEMENT.


                           AMERICANISM, TRUE

   Suppose you are a father, and you have five children. One is
   named Philip, and Philip says to his brothers and sisters: “Now,
   John, you go and live in the small room at the end of the hall.
   George, you go and stay up in the garret. Mary, you go and live
   in the cellar, and, Fannie, you go and live in the kitchen, and
   don’t any of you come out. I am Philip, and will occupy the
   parlor; I like it; I like the lambrequins at the window, and I
   like the pictures on the wall. I am Philip, and, being Philip,
   the parlor shall only be for the Philipians.” You, the father,
   come home, and say: “Fannie, what are you doing in the kitchen?
   Come out of there.” And you say to Mary, “Mary, come out of that
   cellar.” And you say to John, “John, don’t stay shut up in that
   small room. Come out of there.” And you say to George, “George,
   come down out of that garret.” And you say to the children,
   “This is my house. You can go anywhere in it that you want to.”
   And you go and haul Philip out of the parlor, and you tell him
   that his brothers and sisters have just as much right in there
   as he has, and that they are all to enjoy it. Now, God is our
   Father, and this world is a house of several rooms, and God
   has at least five children--the North American continent, the
   South American continent, the Asiatic continent, the European
   continent, and the African continent. The North American
   continent sneaks away, and says: “I prefer the parlor. You South
   Americans, Asiatics, Europeans, and Africans, you stay in your
   own rooms; this is the place for me; I prefer it, and I am going
   to stay in the parlor; I like the front windows facing on the
   Atlantic, and the side windows facing on the Pacific, and the
   nice piazza on the south where the sun shines, and the glorious
   view from the piazza to the north.” And God, the Father, comes
   in and sends thunder and lightning through the house, and says
   to his son, the American continent: “You are no more my child
   than are all these others, and they have just as much right
   to enjoy this part of my house as you have.”--T. DEWITT
   TALMAGE.

    (85)


   =Americans as Spenders=--See MISSIONS, INDIFFERENCE TO.


                          AMERICA’S ATTITUDE

   “The attitude of the United States that she was not warring with
   China in 1900 and that she recognized no spoils of war; the
   attitude that made her give back to China the large quantity
   of silver which fell into her possession at Tien-Tsin; that
   made her give over to the Chinese Government, unmolested, the
   treasury and its treasures in the Forbidden City; that caused
   her, without compulsion, to cancel the Boxer indemnity fund, is
   an attitude too deep, too broad, too high for word expression.
   Does not this attitude reveal a strong current of sisterly
   good will, when it is able to sweep away the heavy weights of
   financial gain? This attitude is not one of spontaneity; the
   seed was brought over in the _Mayflower_; it was planted
   in the virgin soil of liberty, where it rooted, and was watered
   with treasured dew-drops; was nourished into being in love’s
   tenderness; was sustained in truth’s fortitude. This is the
   story of our country’s attitude.”--“Letters from China.”

    (86)


   =Amity=--See KINDNESS.


                            AMITY AFTER WAR

   News of an international event of no little pathos comes from
   Port Arthur. Around the great fortress were buried thousands
   of Russians who fell in the siege, and whose graves were
   unmarked. The Russian Government asked permission to gather
   these remains in one place and erect a tomb for them which
   should be a suitable monument to their heroism. The Japanese
   Government replied by asking for permission to engage in this
   sad duty as a token of honor to the Russian dead. In this
   Russia readily acquiesced, and the tomb, which is of noble
   proportions and Etruscan in design, was recently dedicated. At
   these solemn services the old foes met once more. General Nogi,
   the hero of Port Arthur, was by special order of the Emperor
   the representative of Japan. Russia sent two generals and an
   admiral, who were supported by many Russian officers who had
   fought over that very ground. Regiments of Japanese troops
   stood on guard, as did also representatives of the Japanese
   navy. These latter, at the moment of unveiling, bore a worn and
   battle-torn flag to the tomb, and reverently lowered it as a
   tribute of respect. The religious ceremonies were in charge of
   the Bishop of Peking, of the Russian Church. (Text.)

    (87)


                              AMUSEMENTS

A news item says:

   Mrs. A. B. Sims, of Des Moines, winner of the woman’s whist
   championship of the United States, stood before an audience of
   4,000 at Winona Lake and told why she burned up the forty decks
   of cards that she had at her home.

   “It was not uncommon for me to play whist from 10 A.M.
   to 11 P.M.,” said Mrs. Sims. “After that I saw what
   I was really doing. I burned up all the pasteboards, and I
   should like to speak in every church to the women and tell them
   what card-playing led me to, and what it will lead them to.
   It was undermining our church. The whist and euchre parties
   were sweeping the women of the congregation and the church was
   sinking because of their neglect. The card craze as it prevails
   among women is the most serious competitor the Church has
   to-day.”

Worldliness manifests itself in its games as in other phases of its
life. As the fathers saw the horror of the gladiatorial shows and
their pernicious effect on morals, so in these latter days is caution
necessary and salutary.

    (88)


   =Anarchy, Remedy for=--See EVIL, SELF-DESTRUCTIVE.


                           ANCESTOR WORSHIP

   The destructive influence of ancestor worship far outweighs its
   benefits. It is a ruthless and voracious land-grabber; the best
   of the hills are for the dead. The living may go to Jericho,
   or may huddle together down in the malarial flats, while the
   ancestral shade rests in the high places on the hill. The
   exhilarating surroundings of the trees and green sod are for the
   dead, the living are left to the dust and heat and smells of the
   market-place.

   Ancestral piety forbids the digging of the hills for gold or
   silver or any other treasure. What are the living and what
   is yellow gold compared with the sweet repose of my father’s
   ghost? Away with all sordid visions and leave the hills in
   peace!--JAMES S. GALE, “Korea in Transition.”

    (89)


                           ANCESTRAL EXAMPLE

   It was the custom of the primitive Romans to preserve in the
   halls of their houses the images of all the illustrious men
   whom their families had produced. These images are supposed to
   have consisted of a mask exactly representing the countenance
   of each deceased individual, accompanied with habiliments of
   like fashion with those worn in his time, and with the armor,
   badges, and insignia of his offices and exploits; all so
   disposed around the sides of the hall as to present, in the
   attitude of living men, the long succession of the departed;
   and thus to set before the Roman citizen, whenever he entered
   or left the house, the venerable array of his ancestors revived
   in this imposing similitude. Whenever, by a death in the
   family, another distinguished member of it was gathered to
   his fathers, a strange and awful procession was formed. The
   ancestral masks, including that of the newly deceased, were
   fitted upon the servants of the family, selected of the size
   and appearance of those whom they were intended to represent,
   and drawn up in solemn array to follow the funeral train of the
   living mourners, first to the market-place, where the public
   eulogium was pronounced, and then to the tomb. As he thus moved
   along, with all the great fathers of his name quickening,
   as it were, from their urns, to enkindle his emulation, the
   virtuous Roman renewed his vows of respect to their memory,
   and his resolution to imitate their fortitude, frugality, and
   patriotism.--EDWARD EVERETT.

    (90)


   =Ancestry=--See PEDIGREE.


                              ANCHOR, AN

   Every ship has an anchor, and there are times when the safety
   of the ship depends on its right use of its anchors. When I was
   a boy in Constantinople, an American captain visited our house.
   He told us that his ship was anchored in an exposed harbor in
   one of the islands of the Ægean, when a violent storm broke upon
   them. Both of the anchors which they had down began to drag, and
   it was only a question of time when they would be cast ashore.
   They had one little anchor still unused, and tho they did not
   hope much good could come from dropping it they took the chance.
   To their great surprize and equal delight, tho the two larger
   anchors would not hold, the smaller one held, and they rode out
   the storm in safety. When they came to weigh the anchors, the
   two large ones came up easily, but the smaller one came with
   great difficulty. When at last it appeared above the surface of
   the water, lo and behold, the fluke of the anchor had caught in
   the ring of a large man-of-war’s anchor that had been lost there
   long before! The man-of-war’s anchor had been embedded in the
   soil, and this accounted for the fact that the little anchor
   held.

Every man voyaging on the ocean of life ought to have an anchor. The
apostle speaks about a good hope, which he says we have as an anchor
sure and stedfast entering into the unseen, which is within the
veil.--A. F. SCHAUFFLER, _The Christian Herald_.

    (91)


                              ANCIENT ART

   To the student of architecture it may be surprizing to learn
   that the arch, until recently supposed to have been unknown to
   the ancients, was frequently employed by the pre-Babylonians
   of more than 6,000 years ago. Such an arch, in a poor state of
   preservation, was, a few years ago, discovered in the lowest
   stratum, beneath the Babylonian city of Nippur. More recently
   an arched drain was found beneath the old city of Fara, which
   the Germans have excavated in central Babylonia. The city, altho
   one of the earliest known, was built upon an earlier ruin, and
   provided with an arched drain constructed of small, plano-convex
   bricks. It measures about one meter in height, and has an equal
   width.

   While delving among the ruins of the oldest cities of the world,
   we are thus finding that at the time when we supposed that
   man was primitive and savage, he provided his home and city
   with “improvements” which we are inclined to call modern, but
   which we are only reinventing. (Text.)--Prof. EDGAR JAMES
   BANKS, _The Scientific American_.

    (92)


   =Ancient Human Remains=--See PREHISTORIC WOMEN.


   =Ancient Masters=--See COMPLIMENT.


   =Anesthetics=--See BENEFACTION OF ANESTHETICS.


   =Angel Ministers=--See COOPERATION, LACK OF.


   =Angel Visitants=--See INDIFFERENCE TO THE GOOD.


   =Angels=--See FRIEND, THE SYMPATHETIC.


   =Angels Astray=--See RESCUE.


                                 ANGER

   A cobbler at Leyden, who used to attend the public disputations
   held at the Academy, was once asked if he understood Latin.
   “No,” replied the mechanic, “but I know who is wrong in the
   argument.” “How?” replied his friend. “Why, by seeing who is
   angry first.”

Let not your angry passions rise, if you would be a full overcomer.
(Text.)

    (93)


                             ANGER, FUTILE

   The camel has one very bad fault. He likes to “pay back,” and if
   his driver has injured him in any way he will not rest till he
   has got even.

   The Arabs, people who wander about the desert, and so use the
   camel a great deal, know about this fault of his, and have a
   queer way of keeping themselves from getting hurt.

   When a driver has made his camel angry, he first runs away out
   of sight. Then, choosing a place where the camel will soon pass,
   he throws down some of his clothes, and fixes them so that the
   heap will look like a sleeping man.

   Pretty soon, along comes the camel, and sees the heap. Thinking
   to himself, “Now I’ve got him,” he pounces on the clothes,
   shakes them around, and tramples all over them. After he tires
   of this and has turned away, the driver can appear and ride him
   away without harm.

   Poor, silly camel! He has been in what we call a “blind rage,”
   so angry that he can’t tell the difference between a man and a
   heap of clothes.

    (94)


  =Angle, At the Right=--See PLACE, IN THE RIGHT.


  =Anguish=--See SUFFERING TRANSFORMED.


                            ANIMAL ANCESTRY

   A simple-minded Irish priest I have been told of, having heard
   that we were descended from monkeys, yet not quite grasping
   the chronology of the business, recently visited a menagerie,
   and gave particular and patient attention to a large cage of
   our alleged poor relations on exhibition there. He stood for
   a long time intently scrutinizing their human-like motions,
   gestures, and expressions. By and by he fancied that the largest
   of them, an individual of a singularly grave demeanor, seated
   at the front of the cage, gave him a glance of intelligence.
   The glance was returned. A palpable wink followed, which also
   was returned, as were other like signals; and so it went on
   until his reverence, having cast an eye around to see that
   nobody was observing him, leaned forward and said, in a low,
   confidential tone: “Av ye’ll spake one w-u-r-r-d, I’ll baptize
   ye, begorra!”--JOSEPH H. TWICHELL, D.D.

    (95)


                            ANIMAL DOMINION

   An English hunter tells the story of a tigress that was known
   all over India as the man-eater, who once had given her whelps
   a live man to play with. She carried off the man from an open
   hut in the forest where some wood-cutters were sleeping. His
   companions took refuge in trees, and from their place of safety
   saw her take the man alive to where the whelps were waiting
   close by, and lay him down before them. As the man attempted
   to crawl away the whelps would cling to his legs with teeth
   and claws, the tigress looking on and purring with pleasure.
   (Text.)--LOUIS ALBERT BANKS.

    (96)

   =Animal Friendliness=--See PROTECTION.


                          ANIMAL INTELLIGENCE

A recent dispatch from an Indiana town says:

   Jeff Clarke, a farmer of Wabash township, owns a mule that plays
   the part of an alarm-clock every morning with such regularity
   that Clarke has about discarded the little alarm-clock that
   hangs on the bed-post and firmly refuses to part with the animal.

   Promptly at 4 o’clock this mule kicks the side of the barn four
   times in succession. At first Clarke thought the animal was ill,
   and for several mornings he got up and investigated. He took
   note, however, that the gong of the alarm-clock started buzzing
   when the mule started kicking.

   He put two and two together, and reached the conclusion that the
   mule knows the hour when the Clarke household should arise and
   begin the day’s work.

    (97)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The criminal classes of Moscow, Russia, are beginning to believe
   that the police dog “Tref” is possest of an evil spirit.

   It was rumored recently, in the night shelters and criminal
   dens of Moscow, that “Tref” and his keeper were on the track of
   certain robbers, and were about to scour the town.

   It transpired that a number of bank-notes and other valuables
   had been stolen from a Moscow gentleman named Pokrofsky.
   “Tref’s” services were immediately requisitioned. He was put on
   the scent of the thief, and, after taking a circuitous course,
   entered a night shelter and made straight for an old coat
   belonging to a house-painter who was known under the name of
   Alexander. The sum of five hundred rubles, which had been stolen
   from M. Pokrofsky, was found in one of the pockets of the coat.

   “Tref” then left the night shelter, and, still hot on the scent,
   went to the shop of a second-hand dealer named Gussef, and
   here a number of silver articles stolen from M. Pokrofsky were
   discovered. A cabman drove up at this time, and complained that
   he had just been robbed of a fur coat and an ordinary overcoat.
   “Tref” was at once taken to the scene of the theft, and within a
   few minutes found the clothing concealed in the courtyard of a
   neighboring house.--Philadelphia _Record_.

    (98)

   See CONVICTION THROUGH A MONKEY; DIRECTION; INSTINCT, THE HOMING.


   =Animal Instinct=--See FAITH BETTER THAN SIGHT.


   =Animal Retaliation=--See ANGER, FUTILE.


                           ANIMAL SAVES LIFE

   St. Clair McClary, a miner, buried deep in a snow-slide, at
   Seward, Alaska, owed his life to the keen scent of his dog. The
   snow-slide swept down the mountain. Four men at work on the
   property were caught without warning and buried under several
   feet of snow and débris. Two escaped without serious injury. So
   deep was the slide, however, that difficulty was experienced in
   reaching the others. The dog led the rescuers to a place several
   yards distant, where, after hard digging, they came on the men,
   who had been buried eight hours. Thomas Coales was dead under
   the icy weight. McClary was barely alive when taken out.--_The
   Associated Press._

    (99)


                        ANIMAL SOLVING PROBLEM

   A tiny mouse recently solved the problem of getting an electric
   wire through a pipe 197 feet long at the Vinery Building
   (Norfolk, Va.). There were several bends in the pipe, and modern
   methods, such as blow-pipes, failed to produce results.

   A mouse was caught and a thread tied to its leg. A tape was tied
   to the thread, and the wire to the tape. The mouse was given a
   start, and went through the pipe in a hurry. Liberty was its
   reward.--Philadelphia _Record_.

    (100)


   =Animal Traits=--See PEACEFUL INSTINCT OF SIMIANS.


                     ANIMALS, ABSURD FONDNESS FOR

   A seamstress whom I know was sewing in the home of a wealthy
   woman in one of the aristocratic suburbs of Boston. She was
   there every day for nearly a week, when finally her patience
   became exhausted and she left the house never to return.

   She said she could stand being fed on crackers and milk every
   day at the noon meal, but when she heard the mistress of the
   house at the telephone ordering half a chicken for her pet dogs
   she could withhold her wrath no longer.

   Of course, the good woman of the house was sweetly unconscious
   of the absurd comparison between the dogs’ food and the food for
   the seamstress. Had she had any sense of the meanness of her
   conduct, she never would have telephoned that message within
   the hearing of the seamstress.

   The truth of the matter was that her heart--as much as she had
   left of it--was all wrapt up in her pet dogs, and her interest
   in human beings had become as a matter of habit, simply a
   question of the amount of service they could render her. She is
   probably whining to-day about the seamstress who didn’t know her
   place and who was jealous of people who had means.--GEORGE
   W. COLEMAN, “Searchlights.”

    (101)


   =Animals as Pest Destroyers=--See BARRIERS.


   =Animals Before Men=--See HEARTLESS PAGANS.


   =Animals, Inferior to Man=--See MAN’S CONQUEST OF ANIMALS.


   =Animals not Original=--See ORIGINALITY OF MAN.


   =Animals, Reason in=--See REASONING POWER IN ANIMALS.


                                ANIMISM

The child’s religious nature, like that of primitive man, is animistic.
Professor Dawson, in “The Child and His Religion,” says:

   It is hard for children to resist the feeling that a summer
   shower comes with a sort of personal benevolence to water the
   dry flowers and grass. A little girl of four years illustrated
   this feeling on a certain occasion. There was a thunder-shower
   after a long dry spell. The rain was pattering on the sidewalk
   outside the house. The child stretched forth her hands toward
   the rain-drops and said: “Come, good rain, and water our
   plants!” Flowers and trees have individuality for most children,
   if not for all. Ruth’s mama found her sitting among the wild
   geraniums, some distance from the house. “What are you doing,
   Ruth?” “I’m sitting by the flowers. They are lonesome and like
   to have me with them, don’t you know?” At another time she said:
   “Mama, these daisies seem to look up at me and talk to me.
   Perhaps they want us to kiss them.” On one occasion she said
   to her brother, who was in the act of gathering some flowers
   she claimed for herself, “I don’t think it nice to break off
   those poor flowers. They like to live just as well as you do.”
   The boy thus chided by his sister for gathering her flowers
   was generally very fond of plants and trees, and felt a quite
   human companionship in them. He could not bear to see flowering
   plants hanging in a broken condition, or lying crusht upon
   the sidewalk. Even at the age of ten years, he would still
   work solicitously over flowers like the violets, bluets, and
   crowfoots, with evident concern for their comfort.

    (102)


   =Announcement, Apt=--See CHOIR, THE.


                            ANSWER, A SOFT

   A drunken carter came into a Greenock (Scotland) train and sat
   opposite a clergyman, who was reading his paper. Recognizing
   the profession of his vis-a-vis, the carter leaned forward
   and in a maudlin way remarked, “I don’t believe there’s any
   heaven.” The clergyman paid no heed. “Do you hear me?” persisted
   the carter. “I don’t believe there’s any heaven.” Still the
   clergyman remained behind his newspaper. The carter, shouting
   his confession loudly, said, “I tell ye to your face, and you’re
   a minister, that I don’t believe there’s any heaven.” “Very
   well,” said the clergyman; “if you do not believe there is any
   heaven, go elsewhere, but please go quietly.” (Text.)--London
   _Graphic_.

    (103)


   =Anthem, Extending a National=--See PRAISE, UNITED.


                           ANTHROPOMORPHISM

   Spiritual manhood has put away childish thinking. What, for
   instance, does a child think about God? Professor Street
   publishes some first-hand illustrations of childish conceptions
   of God. He says that children “completely anthropomorphize God,
   making Him subservient to time, space, and passions, just the
   same as they themselves are.” I recall an example or two: When a
   girl was told that the stars were God’s eyes, she at once asked
   where His legs were. Another saw, for the first time, a cupola
   on a barn. Gazing at it she asked, “Does God live in that little
   house?” A boy asked some one if God made the river running back
   of his house. On receiving an affirmative answer, he promptly
   replied, “He must have had a big shovel.” When another boy
   refused to say his prayers, he was asked for the reason. He
   answered, “Why, they are old. God has heard them so many times
   that they are old to Him, too. Why, He knows them as well as I
   do myself.”--F. F. SHANNON.

    (104)


                         ANTICIPATING SUCCESS

One may so believe as already in a sense, to possess:

   In a little parlor down-stairs of Mencci’s house in Staten
   Island were three large altar-candles in the Italian colors of
   red, white and green which, Mencci told us (says a correspondent
   of the _Century_) he and Garibaldi had amused themselves
   at making in a leisure hour “to illuminate the Campidoglio of
   Rome when the Italian army should enter the Eternal City and
   make it the capital of United Italy.” When Rome was recovered,
   three other candles in the Italian colors were actually sent to
   Garibaldi there. (Text.)

    (105)


                             ANTICIPATION

It was Schelling who said that if he had truth in one hand and the
search for truth in the other, he would let truth go in order that he
might search for it. Something of this philosophy is in these verses:

    For me the loitering of the road,
      The hidden voice that sings;
    For me the vernal mysteries,
      Deep woods and silent springs.

    I covet not the ended road,
      The granary, the sheaf;
    For me the sowing of the grain,
      The promise of the leaf. (Text.)

    --_Lippincott’s Magazine._

    (106)

   See NATURE’S ANTIDOTE.


                       ANTIPATHIES, INSTINCTIVE

It would be an excellent accomplishment if an abhorrence of moral evils
could be bred in men similar to the instinctive antipathies described
in this extract:

   It seems absolutely incredible that Peter the Great, the father
   of the Russian navy, should shudder at the sight of water,
   whether running or still, yet so it was, especially when alone.
   His palace gardens, beautiful as they were, he never entered,
   because the river Mosera flowed through them. His coachman
   had orders to avoid all roads which led past streams, and if
   compelled to cross a brook or bridge, the great emperor would
   sit with closed windows, in a cold perspiration. Another
   monarch, James I, the English Solomon, as he liked to be called,
   had many antipathies, chiefly tobacco, ling, and pork. He never
   overcame his inability to look at a drawn sword, and it is said
   that on one occasion when giving the accolade, the king turned
   his face aside, nearly wounding the new-made knight. Henry III
   of France had so great a dislike for cats that he fainted at
   the sight of one. We suppose that in this case the cat had to
   waive his proverbial prerogative, and could not look at a king.
   This will seem as absurd, as extraordinary to lady lovers of
   that much-petted animal, but what are we to say of the Countess
   of Lamballe, of unhappy history, to whom a violet was a thing
   of horror? Even this is not without its precedent, for it is on
   record that Vincent, the painter, was seized with vertigo and
   swooned at the smell of roses. Scaliger states that one of his
   relations was made ill at the sight of a lily, and he himself
   would turn pale at the sight of watercresses, and could never
   drink milk. Charles Kingsley, naturalist as he was to the core,
   had a great horror of spiders, and in “Glaucus,” after saying
   that every one seems to have his antipathic animal, continues:
   “I know one (himself), bred from his childhood to zoology by
   land and sea, and bold in asserting and honest in feeling that
   all, without exception, is beautiful, who yet can not after
   handling and petting and examining all day long, every uncouth
   and venomous beast, avoid a paroxysm of horror at the sight
   of the common house-spider.” (Text.)--_Cassell’s Family
   Magazine._

    (107)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A well-known officer of Her Majesty’s army, who has proved
   his strength and courage in more than one campaign, turns
   pale at the sight of a cat. On one occasion, when asked out
   to dinner, his host, who was rather skeptical as to the
   reality of this feeling, concealed a cat in an ottoman in the
   dining-room. Dinner was announced and commenced, but his guest
   was evidently ill at ease; and at length declared his inability
   to go on eating, as he was sure there was a cat in the room.
   An apparently thorough but unavailing search was made; but
   his visitor was so completely upset that the host, with many
   apologies for his experiment, “let the cat out of the bag,”
   and out of the ottoman at the same time.--_Cassell’s Family
   Magazine._

    (108)


   =Antiques, Artificial=--See AGE.


                               ANTIQUITY

   Sven Hedin has furnished additional evidence of the Chinese
   invention of paper. On his recent journeys he found Chinese
   paper that dates back to the second half of the third century
   after Christ. This lay buried in the sand of the Gobi desert,
   near the former northern shore of the Lop Nor Sea, where, in the
   ruins of a city and in the remnants of one of the oldest houses,
   he discovered a goodly lot of manuscripts, many of paper,
   covered with Chinese script, preserved for some 1,650 years. The
   date is Dr. Himly’s conclusion. According to Chinese sources,
   paper was manufactured as early as the second millennium before
   the Christian era. The character of the Gobi desert find makes
   it probable that the making of paper out of vegetable fibers
   was already an old art in the third Christian century.--_The
   Scientific American._

    (109)

   See PEDIGREE.


                           ANXIETY, COST OF

An English auctioneer tells the following story:

   I had eight acres of land to sell, and there was one landowner
   in the district, whom I will call Mr. Robinson, who was very
   anxious to secure this particular piece of land because it
   adjoined his own estate. He had already attempted to acquire it
   by private arrangement, but the negotiations had fallen through.

   Being engaged at the funeral of a relative on the day of the
   sale, he left very definite instructions with his butler, who
   had only entered his service a day or two before, to attend the
   sale and buy the land at any price. The butler duly came to the
   sale and took up his station in the old chimney-corner, out of
   sight of every one excepting myself. It so happened, however,
   that Mr. Robinson was back from the funeral earlier than he
   expected, and, going to the sale and failing to observe his
   butler, began the bidding with an offer of $2,500. Up and up
   went the price, the landowner and the butler bidding against
   one another like Trojans, until at last the field was knocked
   down to the latter at $7,500. The feelings of Mr. Robinson and
   the amusement of the company may be easily imagined when the
   purchaser remarked in a quiet voice, “For Mr. Robinson. Here’s
   his check for you to fill in for the deposit.”

   Fortunately, Mr. Robinson was anything but a poor man, and
   he had benefited to the tune of $200,000 in the loss of his
   relative, so the few extra thousands he paid did not hurt him.

    (110)


                          ANYHOW, THE LAND OF

    Beyond the Isle of What’s-the-Use,
      Where Slipshod Point is now,
    There used to be, when I was young,
      The Land of Anyhow.

    Don’t Care was king of all this realm--
      A cruel king was he!
    For those who served him with good heart
      He treated shamefully!

    When boys and girls their tasks would slight
      And cloud poor mother’s brow,
    He’d say, “Don’t care! It’s good enough!
      Just do it anyhow.”

    But when in after life they longed
      To make proud fortune bow,
    He let them find that fate ne’er smiles
      On work done anyhow.

    For he who would the harvest reap
      Must learn to use the plow,
    And pitch his tent a long, long way
      From the Land of Anyhow!

    --_Canadian Presbyterian._

    (111)


                          APOLOGY APPRECIATED

   The Hon. W. P. Fessenden unintentionally made a remark against
   Seward, which was considered to be highly insulting. When
   Fessenden was informed of the construction placed upon it, he
   went frankly to Seward, and said, “Mr. Seward, I have insulted
   you, but I did not mean it.” Mr. Seward was so delighted with
   the frank apology that he exclaimed, “God bless you, Fessenden!
   I wish you would insult me again.”--JAMES T. WHITE,
   “Character Lessons.”

    (112)


                                APPAREL

The late Mark Twain, in _The North American Review_, gave a
striking “Sartor Resartus” sketch of what might be the Czar’s morning
meditations, from which we quote the following paragraph:

   “After the Czar’s morning bath it is his habit to meditate
   an hour before dressing himself.”--London _Times_
   Correspondence.

   (_Viewing himself in the pier-glass._) Naked, what am I? A
   lank, skinny, spiderlegged libel on the image of God! Look at
   the waxwork head--the face, with the expression of a melon--the
   projecting ears--the knotted elbows--the dished breast--the
   knife-edged shins--and then the feet, all beads and joints and
   bonesprays, an imitation X-ray photograph! There is nothing
   imperial about this, nothing imposing, impressive, nothing to
   invoke awe and reverence. Is it this that a hundred and forty
   million Russians kiss the dust before and worship? Manifestly
   not! No one could worship this spectacle, which is Me. Then who
   is it, what is it, that they worship? Privately, none knows
   better than I: it is my clothes. Without my clothes I should
   be as destitute of authority as any other naked person. Nobody
   could tell me from a parson, a barber, a dude. Then who is the
   real Emperor of Russia? My clothes. There is no other. (Text.)

    (113)

   See DRESS AFFECTING MOODS.


                        APPAREL IN FORMER TIMES

   When Governor Bowdoin, a tall, dignified man, reviewed the
   troops assembled at Cambridge, in 1785, he was drest in a gray
   wig, cocked hat, a white broadcloth coat and waistcoat, red
   small-clothes, and black silk stockings. John Hancock, thin in
   person, six feet in stature, was very fond of ornamental dress.
   He wore a wig when abroad, and a cap when at home. A gentleman
   who visited Hancock one day at noon, in June, 1782, describes
   him as drest in a red velvet cap lined with fine white linen,
   which was turned up two or three inches over the lower edge of
   the velvet. He also wore a blue damask gown lined with silk; a
   white stock, a white satin embroidered waistcoat, black satin
   small-clothes, white silk stockings, and red morocco slippers.
   Washington, at his receptions in Philadelphia, was drest in
   black velvet; his hair was powdered and gathered behind in a
   large silk bag. His hands were encased in yellow gloves; he
   held a cocked hat with a cockade on it, and its edges adorned
   with a black feather. He wore knee and shoe buckles, and at
   his left hip appeared a long sword in a polished white leather
   scabbard, with a polished steel hilt. Chief-Justice Dana, of
   Massachusetts, used to wear in winter a white corduroy surtout,
   lined with fur, and held his hands in a large muff. The judges
   of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts wore, till 1793, robes
   of scarlet, faced with black velvet, in winter, and black silk
   gowns in summer. At the beginning of this century powder for
   the hair became unfashionable, tying up the hair was abandoned,
   colored garments went out of use, buckles disappeared, and
   knee-breeches gave place to trousers.--_Youth’s Companion._

    (114)

   See JUDGING FROM FACTS.


                           APPEAL, A LIVING

   Dr. Bernardo, of London, the great philanthropist, was standing
   at his front door one bitter day, when a ragged urchin came up
   to him and asked to be admitted to the Orphans’ Home. “How do
   I know what you tell me is true? Have you any friends to speak
   for you?” asked Dr. Bernardo, assuming a tone of severity.
   “Friends!” echoed the little fellow--“friends! No, I ain’t got
   no friends. But if these ere rags,” holding up his tattered
   garments, “if these ere rags won’t speak for me, nothing else
   will.” (Text.)

    (115)


   =Appeal Wasted=--See OMNISCIENCE.


                              APPEARANCE

The Late Charles P. Thompson, of the Massachusetts Supreme Court, at
one time in his practise had a client named Michael Dougherty, who had
been arrested for the illegal sale of liquor, but the police had no
evidence except one pint of whisky, which they found in his alleged
kitchen barroom. The Boston _Herald_, in relating this story, says:

   In the superior court this evidence was produced and a somewhat
   vivid claim made of _prima facie_ evidence of guilt by the
   prosecuting attorney. During all this time Mr. Thompson was
   silent. When his turn came for the defense he arose and said:

   “Michael Dougherty, take the stand.”

   And Mike, with big red nose, unshaven face, bleared eyes, and a
   general appearance of dilapidation and dejection, took the stand.

   “Michael Dougherty, look upon the jury. Gentlemen of the jury,
   look on Michael Dougherty,” said Mr. Thompson. All complied.
   Mr. Thompson himself silently and steadily gazing at Mike for a
   moment, slowly and with solemnity turned to the jury and said:
   “Gentlemen of the jury, do you mean to say to this court and to
   me that you honestly and truly believe that Michael Dougherty,
   if he had a pint of whisky, would sell it?”

   It is needless to say Mike was acquitted. (Text.)

    (116)


                              APPEARANCES

   An officer of a Cunard steamer remarked that there is “a vast
   difference between the appearance of steerage passengers
   returning to Europe and those coming to America. On the western
   voyage the faces of the immigrants are bright with expectancy.
   You can see that they have been inspired by the roseate visions
   painted for them by their friends who have succeeded on this
   side of the water. Those who go back are not many. You can pick
   them out by their dejected looks. They have not succeeded. They
   have found that hard work is just as necessary to get along in
   the States as in Europe.”

The sad faces of those who go back because they failed is an
illustration of the gloomy hearts that are carried by those who have
turned away from their Christian profession and gone back to their sins.

    (117)

   See PROFESSION VERSUS CHARACTER; SPIRITUAL DECLENSION.


   =Appearances, Judging by=--See JUDGMENTS, INDISCRIMINATE.


                        APPEARANCES MISLEADING

   It is the custom in European, if not in all American, prisons to
   shave the head and face of criminals in order to have the full
   force of the moral expression furnished by the contour of one
   and the outlines of the other. A profusion of hair may disguise
   the head whose shape often reveals a degree of turpitude. A
   luxuriant mustache may hide a mouth about which lurks the
   evidence of the basest instincts. (Text.)--San Francisco
   _Chronicle_.

    (118)


                               APPETITE

To be slain by appetite is a common fate with men, as it was with this
serpent:

   A boa-constrictor woke up hungry from a three months’ nap and
   caught a rabbit, which he bolted whole in the usual way. This
   did not satisfy the cravings of his capacious stomach, and so
   he went a-field in search of further victuals, and presently
   came to a rail fence, which he essayed to get through. But the
   lump caused by the defunct tho undigested bunny stopt him, like
   a knot in a rope, when his head and a few feet only of his body
   had passed between the rails. Lying in this attitude, he caught
   and swallowed another rabbit which had incautiously ventured
   within his narrow sphere of action. Now, what was the state of
   affairs? He could neither go ahead nor astern through the fence,
   being jammed by his fore-and-aft inside passengers, and in this
   embarrassing position he was slain with ease.

    (119)


                          APPOINTMENT, GOD’S

    Take each disappointment
    As thy Lord’s appointment
      Sent in love divine;
    Check all faithless fretting
    God is not forgetting
      Any need of thine.


   =Appraising the Christian Religion=--See CHRISTIAN HONESTY.


   =Appreciating Patience=--See GOOD, SEEING THE.


                             APPRECIATION

When Sir Godfrey Kneller had painted for Alexander Pope the statues of
Apollo, Venus, and Hercules, the poet paid the painter with these lines:

    What god, what genius did the pencil move,
      When Kneller painted these!
    ’Twas friendship, warm as Phœbus, kind as love,
      And strong as Hercules.

    (120)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The reckless extravagance that has brought Princess Louise,
   of Belgium, into such trouble with her royal relations is far
   from being due entirely to selfishness, and Brussels now is
   discussing, half in admiration, half in despair, the latest
   story showing the utter inability of the princess to realize the
   value of money or the things it buys. When in Paris, a few weeks
   ago, she happened to be in her room in her hotel when a little
   work-girl from one of the shops in the Rue de la Paix called
   to deliver a gown. Princess Louise was struck with the girl’s
   charm of face and manner, and, keeping her for a few minutes in
   conversation, chanced to admire a small silver medal she was
   wearing around her neck.

   “It is a medal of the virgin of Prague,” said the girl. “Perhaps
   your Highness will accept it.”

   Princess Louise thanked her warmly; but, insisting on giving the
   girl something to replace the trinket, handed her a rope of
   pearls. The girl supposed they were only imitations, but the
   whole story came out in a few days when, on taking them to a
   jeweler to have the clasp tightened, she was cross-questioned as
   to how the pearls had come into her possession. They proved to
   be worth more than $11,000.--New York _Press_.

    (121)

   See COMPLIMENT; ENDEAVOR; HEROISM RECOGNIZED; KINSHIP.


   =Appreciation, Belated=--See IRRETRIEVABLE, THE.


                         APPRECIATION, DELAYED

Mrs. Marion M. Hutson points out the necessity of appreciating the help
of others before it is too late.

    Somewhere in the future--God knows when--
    These tired hands will lie at rest--and then
    The friends and loved ones will recall with tears
    Some kindly deed they wrought in bygone years.
    Will ponder o’er those little acts again,
    And register them all on heart and brain.
    My precious ones, why wait? Tell me to-day
    If ever hands of mine have soothed your way.

    (122)


                         APPRECIATION, LACK OF

   The owner of a small country estate decided to sell his
   property, and consulted an estate agent in the nearest town
   about the matter. After visiting the place, the agent wrote a
   description of it, and submitted it to his client for approval.

   “Read that again,” said the owner, closing his eyes and leaning
   back in his chair contentedly.

   After the second reading he was silent a few moments, and then
   said thoughtfully: “I don’t think I’ll sell. I’ve been looking
   for that kind of a place all my life, but until you read that
   description I didn’t know I had it! No; I won’t sell now.”

If we could see our own blessings as others see them, would it not add
to our contentment with our lot?

    (123)


                       APPRECIATION OF CHARACTER

   A shipping merchant said to a boy applying for work, “What can
   you do?” “I can do my best to do what you are kind enough to let
   me try,” replied the boy. “What have you done?” “I have sawed
   and split my mother’s wood for nearly two years.” “What have you
   _not_ done?” “Well, sir,” the boy replied after a moment’s
   reflection, “I have not whispered in school for over a year.”
   “That is enough,” said the merchant. “I will take you aboard
   my vessel, and I hope some day to see you her captain. A boy
   who can master a wood-pile and bridle his tongue must have good
   stuff in him.”--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (124)


   =Appreciation of Poetry=--See POET APPRECIATED.


   =Appreciation of the Gospel Story=--See FATHER, OUR.


                        APPRECIATION, SPIRITUAL

   An infinite joy is lost to the world by the want of culture
   of the spiritual endowment. Suppose that I were to visit a
   cottage and to see its walls lined with the choicest pictures of
   Raffael, and every spare nook filled with statues of the most
   exquisite workmanship, and that I were to learn that neither
   man, woman, nor child ever cast an eye at these miracles of
   art, how should 1 feel their privation; how should I want to
   open their eyes, and to help them to comprehend and feel the
   loveliness and grandeur which in vain courted their notice!
   But every husbandman is living in sight of the works of a
   diviner Artist; and how much would his existence be elevated
   could he see the glory which shines forth in their forms,
   hues, proportions, and moral expression!--WILLIAM ELLERY
   CHANNING.

    (125)


                        APPREHENSION, LINCOLN’S

In Carl Schurtz’ war reminiscences, we find the following, showing the
apprehension felt by Lincoln at the outbreak of the war:

   One afternoon, after he [President Lincoln] had issued his call
   for troops, he sat alone in his room, and a feeling came over
   him as if he were utterly deserted and helpless. He thought
   any moderately strong body of Secessionist troops, if there
   were any in the neighborhood, might come over the “long bridge”
   across the Potomac, and just take him and the members of the
   Cabinet--the whole lot of them. Then he suddenly heard a sound
   like the boom of a cannon. “There they are!” he said to himself.
   He expected every moment that somebody would rush in with the
   report of an attack. But the White House attendants, whom he
   interrogated, had heard nothing. Nobody came, and all remained
   still. Then he thought he would look after the thing himself.
   So he walked out, and walked and walked until he got to the
   arsenal. There he found the doors all open, and not a soul to
   guard them. Anybody might have gone in and helped himself to the
   arms. There was perfect solitude and stillness all around. Then
   he walked back to the White House without noticing the slightest
   sign of disturbance. He met a few persons on the way, some of
   whom he asked whether they had not heard something like the boom
   of a cannon. Nobody had heard anything, and so he supposed it
   must have been a freak of his imagination. It is probable that
   at least a guard was sent to the arsenal that evening. (Text.)

    (126)


   =Aptitude=--See CAPACITY, ORIGINAL.


   =Arch, The=--See ANCIENT ART.


   =Architecture Imitating Nature=--See NATURE A MODEL.


                           ARGUING FOR TRUTH

   To illustrate the extraordinary argumentativeness of the Scots
   there is a story of a Scotchman who lay dying in a London
   hospital. A woman visitor wanted to sing to him some hymns, but
   he told her that he had all his life fought against using hymn
   tunes in the service of God, but he was willing to argue the
   question with her as long as his senses remained. I say that
   when a man in the face of death is willing to stand for the
   truth as it has been taught to him, it is out of such stuff that
   heroes are made. (Text.)--JOHN WATSON.

    (127)


   =Argument, Ineffectual=--See DOCILITY, SPIRITUAL.


                      ARISTOCRACY, ABSURDITIES OF

   It is common to find in American novels such expressions as
   “great families,” “best society,” “long descended,” and we
   also hear of the “exclusiveness” of the “fastidious” American
   aristocracy, who think as much of their positions as the
   haughtiest _vieille noblesse_ in Europe. “A patrician
   crush” is, according to one writer, the synonym of what
   another calls “a tony gathering.” These crushes and gatherings
   have, however, little of the aristocratic element in their
   composition. They are, for the most part, but fashionable
   circles in which prevails “the milliner’s estimate of life.” It
   is into this society that the young lady makes her “dew-bew,”
   as _debut_ is startlingly pronounced in America. In no
   other English-speaking community do the plebeians stickle
   so for the titles of “gentleman” and “lady.” I was told by
   an Irish-American laundress that “the lady what did the
   clear-starching got twelve dollars a week.” And I have heard
   of a cabman who asked, “Are you the man as wants a gentleman
   to drive him to the depot?” During an investigation concerning
   the Cambridge, Mass., workhouse, one of the witnesses spoke
   of the “ladies’ cell.” And a newspaper reporter writing of a
   funeral had occasion to say how “the corpse of the dead lady”
   looked. The plebeian who, by dint of hard work, has accumulated
   wealth, often aspires to patrician distinction. Tiffany, of
   New York, is said to have a pattern-book of crests, from
   which the embryo nobleman may choose an escutcheon emblematic
   either of his business or of some less worthy characteristic.
   A shirt-maker of Connecticut, having made a fortune by an
   improved cutting-machine, announced his intention of getting
   a coat of arms. An unappreciative commoner asked him if the
   design would be a shirt rampant. “No,” he gravely replied, “it
   will be a shirt pendant and washerwoman rampant.”--HAROLD
   BRYDGES, _Cosmopolitan_.

    (128)


                        ARISTOCRACY, INGRAINED

Tolstoy says:

   Speaking of my past I condemn myself unreservedly, for all my
   faults and errors were the natural result of my aristocratic
   birth and training, which is the worst thing that can befall a
   man, as it stifles every human instinct. Turgenef wrote to me:
   “You have tried for many years to become a peasant in conduct as
   well as in ideas, but you nevertheless are the same aristocrat.
   You are good-hearted and have a charming personality, but I have
   observed that in all your practical dealings with the peasants
   you remain the patronizing master who likes to be esteemed for
   his benefactions and to be considered the bounteous patriarch,”
   in which he was very right.

    (129)


   =Ark, Noah’s Seaworthy=--See BIBLE RE-ENFORCED.


   =Armament, Costly=--See WAR, AFTER EFFECTS OF.


                          ARMIES OF THE WORLD

   The comparative exemption of the United States from great
   military burdens may be inferred from the chart below. The cost
   proportionately of maintaining the army in this country is
   far greater than in Europe. The table below shows the cost of
   maintaining the armies of some of the principal countries.

    British Army (1908–09)         $138,800,000
    United States Army              103,000,000
    German Army                     206,000,000
    French Army (1907–08)           189,000,000

    (130)

   See MILITARISM.

  [Illustration:

    Russia  Germany  Austria  Italy  France  Japan  Great  U. S.
                     -Hungary                      Britain

  COMPARATIVE SIZE OF THE ARMIES OF THE WORLD]


                                 ARMOR

   The king-crab, found in the Indian and American seas, is armed
   with a sword-like weapon at his tail and his head is protected
   by a sword-shaped helmet, so he is well armed for the battle of
   life. Since he and his ancestry have assisted in purifying the
   sea, we can see the wisdom which preserved them from age to age.

   In the age-long battle against spiritual enemies, Paul urges the
   Ephesian Christians to “take unto them the whole armor of God”;
   “and having done all to stand.” (Text.)

    (131)

   See RESISTANCE.


                              ARMOR-PROOF

Paul writes of the “whole armor of God,” proof against “the fiery darts
of the wicked.”

   Mr. W. T. Stead thinks that armor is certainly about to be
   revived in the military forces of Europe. A bullet-proof
   substance has been discovered; and if it be used as a
   breast-plate like a steel cuirass, it will put a different face
   on modern warfare. The French Government has tested the new
   armor, and reports that it has four or five times the resistance
   of chilled steel, and is invulnerable to rifle bullets. The
   equipment is not heavier than a cuirass and costs half as much.
   Of his own observation in this matter, Mr. Stead writes as
   follows in the London _Daily Chronicle_:

   “I have myself witnessed experiments which go to prove that the
   soldier provided with this new armor can expose himself to the
   fire of modern rifles, at a distance of one hundred yards, and
   suffer as little from their fire as if he were being assailed by
   pea-shooters. The regiment arrayed in this armor of proof, and
   marching up to within one hundred yards of the enemy, suffers no
   more damage from a mitraille of steel bullets than if it were
   marching through an ordinary hailstorm.”

    (132)


   =Army, Tribute to=--See ACKNOWLEDGMENT.


                                AROUSAL

Sensationalism in the sense of stirring men to greater interest in
verities, seems wholly praiseworthy:

   Old Peter Cartwright was a famous preacher and circuit-rider
   many years ago.

   The exhorter was holding a camp-meeting in Ohio. There was a
   great number of campers on the field, and the eccentric speaker
   addrest vast concourses at every service, but he thought too
   few were being converted. He felt that something should be
   done to stir the sinners to repentance, so he prepared a strong
   sermon on the second coming of Christ. He told how the world
   would go on in its sin and wickedness, and at last Gabriel would
   sound his trumpet and time would come to an end. He described
   the horrors of the lost and the joys of those who were saved.
   The sermon grew in intensity, and he brought his people up to
   a grand climax, when suddenly the sound of a trumpet smote the
   ears of the anxious throng.

   There was a great sensation, and many fell upon their knees in
   terror and began to repent and pray. Women screamed and strong
   men groaned. Pandemonium was let loose for a few minutes. After
   the terror had somewhat ceased the preacher called to a man up
   a tree, and he descended with a long tin horn in his hand. The
   speaker then turned in fierce wrath and upbraided the people.
   He cried out in stentorian tones that, if a man with a tin horn
   up a tree could frighten them so, how would it be in the last
   great end when Gabriel’s trumpet sounded the knell of the world!
   The sermon had a great effect upon the vast audience, and many
   hundreds flocked to the front and were converted.

    (133)


                        AROUSEMENT BY A THOUGHT

   It is not infrequent to find a really great mind sunk in
   apathy for want of a compelling thought, a dominant idea, a
   commensurate ambition. Then something rouses such a mind, and
   at the touch of a magic wand its slumber is broken. Some hint
   drops like a seed into its prepared soil, and the mind becomes
   so renewed and vitalized that henceforth it scarcely seems the
   same. This was precisely the history of Gibbon’s intellect.
   The moment when his imaginative sympathy was touched with the
   thought of the past glory and present degradation of Rome, was
   the moment that freed all the latent powers of his genius, as
   ice is thawed by the sudden burst of summer warmth. And in
   that moment, also, his years of wide and irregular study bore
   fruit.--W. J. DAWSON, “The Makers of English Prose.”

    (134)


   =Arousing an Undutiful Son=--See WORSHIPER, A MOTHER.


   =Arrested Development=--See RETARDATION.


   =Arriving=--See AMBITION.


   =Art=--See HOME VALUES; PICTURE, RECORD PRICE FOR; REALISM.


   =Art, Age in=--See ENDURING ART.


   =Art as a Transformer=--See BEAUTIFUL, INFLUENCE OF THE.


                            ART, DECLINE OF

   As long as a family thought itself comfortably furnished with a
   chest or two, a wardrobe, a box-bedstead, a dozen earthenware
   pots of different sizes, and three or four vessels of pewter
   or copper, each one of these objects of utility might become a
   vehicle for a good deal of artistic thought. The piece would
   be handed down from mother to daughter, from father to son. At
   all events, it would be made with that possibility in mind.
   It was made to last, and in an artistic community it would be
   the object of a good deal of careful consideration as to its
   form and as to the little adornments that might be added to
   it. Now, however, when the poorest family requires two hundred
   utensils of one and another kind, and finds, moreover, that
   these utensils are furnished at an incredibly low price by great
   companies which make them by the thousand and force them upon
   the customer with favorable opportunities for immediate delivery
   and gradual payment, the possibility of having the common
   objects of life beautiful has gone.--RUSSELL STURGIS,
   “Lubke’s History of Art.”

    (135)


                           ART, DEVOTION TO

The secret of success in any calling is an enthusiasm for our work like
that of this artist:

   The steamer was anchored in Glacier Bay, and he [R. Swain
   Gifford] was alone on the beach near Muir inlet, sketching. He
   was making a sketch of the Muir glacier, which was 250 feet
   above water and two miles wide. Suddenly he noticed an enormous
   mass of ice breaking away from the glacier. It was several
   hundred yards long, and Gifford quickly realized that he was
   witnessing something few men had seen. He saw his danger if
   he stayed on the beach, but he wanted a picture of that huge
   detached mass of ice. He had his camera with him; he quickly
   adjusted it and took a snap-shot. He didn’t lose a minute then
   in collecting his tools and running as fast as he could to the
   high ground.

   He escaped none too soon. The great mass of ice dropt into the
   water, and then came a return wave that would have swallowed the
   artist if he hadn’t been on high ground. (Text.)

    (136)


   =Art Highly Valued=--See PICTURE, RECORD PRICE FOR.


   =Art in Weather Changes=--See ICE BEAUTY.


                           ART UNAPPRECIATED

   The enterprising manager of a Paris theater once called upon
   Meissonier and asked him to paint a drop-scene for a certain
   theater and name his own terms. “You have seen my pictures,
   then?” asked Meissonier. “Oh, yes,” exclaimed the manager; “but
   it is your name--your name I want; it will draw crowds to my
   theater.” “And how large is it you wish this curtain to be?”
   inquired the artist. “Ah, well, we will say fifteen meters by
   eighteen.” Meissonier took up a pencil and proceeded to make a
   calculation. At last he looked up and said with imperturbable
   gravity, “I have calculated and find that my pictures are valued
   at 80,000 francs per meter. Your curtain, therefore, will cost
   you just 21,600,000 francs. But that is not all. It takes me
   twelve months to paint twenty centimeters of canvas. It will,
   therefore, take me just one hundred and ninety years to finish
   your curtain. You should have come to me earlier, monsieur;
   I am too old for the undertaking now. Good-morning.”--_Art
   Amateur._

    (137)

   See AGE.


                             ARTICULATION

   “Clear articulation, not loudness in speech, is what the deaf
   desire. Remember this, and not only will the deaf hear, but they
   will be spared the physical pains and embarrassing discomfort
   occasioned by shouting,” advised Dr. C. J. Blake in a lecture at
   the Harvard medical school during which he discust hearing and
   speech.

   “People thoughtlessly shout at those who are afflicted with
   deafness, little realizing the real pain they are causing,” said
   Dr. Blake. “If you would be thoughtful and considerate of these
   unfortunates, put emphasis on the articulation. Again and again
   have deaf persons said to me, ‘How I wish people would not shout
   at me so,’ and there is a pathetic note in the voice which long
   suffering creates.”

   It was brought out that the so-called drumhead is tough enough
   to sustain a column of mercury twelve inches high and of its own
   diameter; but is, nevertheless, delicate enough to record sound
   waves vibrating 50,000 times a second.

   The ordinary human voice, he explained, is vibrating about 152
   times, and should be perfectly understood by an ordinary healthy
   individual. Consonant sounds, he said, are the retarding factor
   in speech, hence it is the duty of every person to cultivate the
   habit of clear articulation.

    (138)


                               ARTIFICE

   I once discovered a mother cuckoo in charge of an infant,
   evidently on his first outing. Drawn by his insistent demand for
   food, I came unexpectedly upon the pair in a retired spot in the
   woods. At sight of me the mother instantly left her clamorous
   offspring and flew to the lowest limb of a tree near by, where
   she treated me to a series of theatrical postures, bows,
   feathered displays, and acrobatic performances wonderful to
   see, keeping up at the same time a low cry which had instantly
   silenced the baby cries I had heard. Never for an instant taking
   her eyes off me, nor interrupting her remarkable demonstrations,
   the anxious mother very gradually, almost imperceptibly, moved
   away, a twig at a time, while I followed, fascinated and far
   more interested in her dramatic efforts than in finding her
   youngling. When she had thus drawn me several feet away from
   the dangerous spot, presto! she took to her wings and was
   gone.--OLIVE THORNE MILLER, “The Bird Our Brother.”

    (139)

       *       *       *       *       *

   There is a pleasant story of a lawyer, who, being refused
   entrance into heaven by St. Peter, contrived to throw his hat
   inside the door; and then, being permitted by the kind saint to
   go in and fetch it, took advantage of his being fixt to his post
   as doorkeeper to refuse to come back again. (Text.)--CROAKE
   JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (140)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A congregation in Connecticut had lost their pastor, and were
   desirous of filling his place. But their last minister had
   been self-taught, and the aristocracy--to wit, the deacons,
   etc.--stipulated that the new minister should have a classical
   education. In order to be sure of their man, the deacons agreed
   to let applicants preach a sermon on trial. At last a Welshman
   heard of the vacancy, but he was less learned than the one who
   had left; still, he determined to try. The day was arranged,
   the appointed minute arrived, and the candidate mounted into
   the pulpit. He got well on in his sermon, when he suddenly
   recollected that he was expected to show his learning.

   “My friends” he said, “I will now quote you a passage in Greek.”

   With a solemn look he repeated a verse in his native tongue. The
   effect was marvelous; approving nods and smiles were exchanged
   among the deacons. Thus encouraged, he followed up his advantage
   by saying:

   “Perhaps you would also like to hear it in Latin?”

   He then repeated another passage in Welsh; this was even more
   successful than before. The preacher cast his eye over his
   flock, and saw that he was regarded with looks of increasing
   respect. Unfortunately, there was also a Welshman in the
   congregation; he was sitting at the back, almost choked in his
   efforts to stifle his laughter. The minister’s eye fell on him,
   and took in the whole situation at a glance. Preserving his
   countenance, he continued:

   “I will also repeat it in Hebrew.”

   He then sang out in his broadest Welsh: “My dear fellow, stop
   laughing, or they will find it out.”

   The other understood, stifled his laughter, and afterward dined
   with his successful countryman.--_Tit-Bits._

    (141)

   See FOOLISHNESS SOMETIMES IS WISDOM; PREFERRED CREDITOR.


   =Artifice in Insects=--See SIMULATION.


   =Ascent of Man=--See BLESSING THE ROPES.


                              ASCETICISM

   The black shadow of asceticism spread over the sky of the
   Puritan Fathers. Given two coats, they chose the ugliest one.
   Given two colors for the woman’s garb, they chose the saddest
   and somberest. Given two roads, they chose the one that held
   the most thorns and cutting rocks. Given two forms of fear and
   self-denial, they took both. The favorite text of asceticism
   is “deny yourself.” The favorite color of asceticism is black;
   its favorite music, a dirge; its favorite hour is midnight;
   its favorite theme is a tombstone. The mistake of asceticism
   is in thinking that pain by itself considered has a moral
   value.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (142)

   Macaulay said that “the Puritans hated bear-baiting, not because
   it gave pain to the bear, but because it gave pleasure to the
   spectators.” I once knew a man of this type who rooted up his
   wife’s flower-bed on the ground that attention to flowers was a
   wicked waste of time that ought to be given to the study of the
   Bible.--W. C. S.

    (143)


                             ASKING AMISS

We ask for so many foolish things. If we should get them we would
not know what to do with the answers. “Sophie,” the scrub-woman, of
Brooklyn, in her quaint, half-broken English, once said this:

   “I heard about a countryman who was in the city for the first
   time. He went into a restaurant and made up his mind to have
   something fine, whatever the cost. He saw a man at the next
   table put a little mustard on his plate, and he said ‘that must
   be fine and expensive, he has so little, but no matter what it
   costs, I will haf some.’ So he told the waiter to bring him a
   dollar’s worth of that stuff. A plate was brought. He took a big
   spoonful: it bit him; he spit it out and did not want any more.
   So, we ask for things that if our Father should give them to us
   we would only be bitten by them and be glad to get rid of them.”
   (Text.)

    (144)


   =Asking and Receiving=--See FAITH AND PRAYER.


                          ASKING, BOLDNESS IN

   The story is told in the Springfield _Republican_ that
   Andrew Carnegie asked a young man who was about to become
   a student at Jena to get for him an autograph of Professor
   Haeckel. When it arrived it read thus: “Ernst Haeckel
   gratefully acknowledges the receipt from Andrew Carnegie of
   a Zumpt microscope for the biological laboratory of the Jena
   University.” Mr. Carnegie made good, admiring the scientist more
   than ever. (Text.)

    (145)


                                ASLEEP

   Tsavo is 133 miles from Mombasa, and during the construction
   of the line no less than twenty-nine Indians were eaten there
   by lions. The work was threatened, and a party of three young
   men--Hubner, Parenti and Ryal--took a car and lay in wait at
   night for a bold man-eater, who had stalked up and picked up a
   man on an open railway truck as the train slowed down into the
   station. Parenti lay on the floor, Hubner was in an upper berth,
   and Ryal was on the seat of the carriage, with his rifle. Ryal
   was on guard, but unfortunately he fell asleep. At 2 o’clock
   in the morning the man-eater they were hunting entered the
   carriage, picked up Ryal, jumped through the window, and fled
   to the forest, where the unfortunate man’s whitened bones were
   long afterward found.--PETER MACQUEEN, _Leslie’s
   Weekly_.

    (146)


                              ASPIRATION

Does not every man at times feel the aspiration to realize the man he
“might have been”:

    Across the fields of long ago
      He sometimes comes to me,
    A little lad with face aglow--
      The lad I used to be.

    And yet he smiles so wistfully,
      Once he has crept within--
    I think that he still hopes to see
      The man I might have been!

    (147)

       *       *       *       *       *

    Climb on! Climb ever! Ne’er despond,
      Tho from each summit gained
    There stretch forth ever heights beyond--
      Ideals to be attained!
    Life’s rescript simply is to climb,
      Unheeding toil and tire;
    Failure hath no attaint of crime,
      If we but still aspire.

    --JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (148)

       *       *       *       *       *

The spirit of man is not intended to grovel on low levels or to
gravitate downward under carnal influences. Man is the only creature on
earth so constructed physically as to be able to gaze upward.

   “He died climbing” is the simple inscription on a monument to
   an Alpine guide, who perished when attempting the ascent of a
   peak. That record is a noble tribute to a hero. His attitude
   should be ours--looking upward and pressing forward. He was
   pressing on in the pathway of duty. Many a splendid career,
   intercepted at the critical juncture, might be described by
   the same sententious record. “He died climbing” may be said of
   many a young and ardent enthusiast--of Mackay, soon cut off in
   Uganda; of Bishop Hannington, reaching the border of the same
   land and martyred there; of Patteson, soon slain in Melanesia
   by islanders who mistook him for a slave-catching captain; of
   Henry Martyn, who did not live to see any of the results of his
   mission; of Wyclif, who sent forth the Bible in English but was
   not permitted to see the beginning of the Reformation. All these
   “died climbing.” (Text.)

    (149)

       *       *       *       *       *

Theodosia Garrison points out in these verses that aspiration, even
when it fails of realization, is good for the soul:

    Let me remember that I failed,
      So I may not forget
    How dear that goal the distance veiled
      Toward which my feet were set.

    Let me forget, if so Thy will,
      How fair the joy desired,
    Dear God, so I remember still
      That one day I aspired. (Text.)

    --_Ainslee’s Magazine._

    (150)

       *       *       *       *       *

W. H. T. Squires expresses the normal law of the soul--that its desires
are to rise and climb--in these verses:

    Up from the mists of marsh and fen,
    Up from the gloom of the glen,
      The mountains rise to kiss the skies,
      They spurn the plain that lowly lies--
    Up from the forest’s fitful shade,
    Up to the heights that God hath made.

    Up from the stains of sordid strife,
    Up to a loftier life
      My spirit cries, “Aspire! aspire!”
      Climb we the heights from high to higher
    Up, lest the fleeting daylight fade,
    “Up!” is the law God hath laid.

    (151)

   See DISCONTENT, DIVINE; FOCUSING THE EYE.


                             ASSIMILATION

   The alfalfa plant is a rank species of grass that grows in the
   western sections of our country. It is valuable for horses and
   also for enriching waste land. It thrives in a soil where other
   plants would fail because of its power to find water. Roots in
   search of moisture have been found that were eighteen inches in
   length. The stalk makes heavy drafts on the surrounding air for
   nitrogen. Its powers of assimilation are remarkable. Its rapid
   and sturdy growth is a result of its habit of drawing upon all
   the surrounding air and the soil to build itself up.

If we wish to grow we must avail ourselves of every possible means.
Soul culture depends not only upon hearing the truth, but upon
assimilating the truth. (Text.)

    (152)

       *       *       *       *       *

Are there not moral and religious “bolters and chewers.” Some men try
to get their religious pabulum by “bolting” all their experience in
a revival; others, with a more quiet deliberation, are intent upon
growing in grace through the years.

   In an address at the Royal Dental Hospital, London, Dr. Osler,
   as reported in _The Hospital_ (London), asserted that the
   public may be divided into two great groups, the bolters and
   chewers. Says this paper: “He maintains that it is the business
   of dental students to endeavor to convert the overwhelming
   percentage of bolters into a select group of chewers. This is
   their mission of utility; but Professor Osler also affirms that
   they have a mission to beautify the race. He holds that if there
   is one thing more beautiful than another under heaven it is a
   beautiful set of teeth. To promote these missions he would have
   attached to every elementary school a dental surgeon to inspect
   the mouths of the children; and total abstainers will learn with
   a shock, that he considers the question of teeth more a national
   problem than that of alcohol. If people generally had good teeth
   instead of bad, the chewers would be many and the bolters few,
   and a potent cause of human suffering and physical deterioration
   would be arrested.”

    (153)


   =Assistance=--See HELPFULNESS.


                              ASSOCIATION

   There are localities in Switzerland where the canary is caged
   with a nightingale so that it may catch the sweetness and
   breathe into its notes that harmonious melody that delights
   all tourists in Europe. It is a demonstration of the power of
   association. This canary-bird had been trained by a nightingale.

So men may make their lives strong, pure, sweet and holy in thought,
word and deed by unbroken association with those who live on a higher
plane. (Text.)

    (154)


   =Association, Christian=--See WARMTH, LOST.


                          ASSOCIATION, LAW OF

   My father remembered the last clergyman in New England who still
   continued to wear the wig. At first it became a singularity and
   at last a monstrosity, and the good doctor concluded to leave
   it off. But there was one poor woman among his parishioners who
   lamented this sadly; and waylaying the clergyman as he came out
   of church, she said, “Oh, dear doctor, I have always listened
   to your sermon with the greatest edification and comfort, but
   now that the wig is gone all is gone.”--JAMES RUSSELL
   LOWELL.

    (155)


                       ASSOCIATION, LEARNING BY

   A gentleman had in his bird-room a deformed blue jay, who was
   reared from the nest and never associated with his kind. In the
   room was also a cardinal grosbeak, one of the finest singers of
   his family. The young blue jay learned the song of the cardinal
   so perfectly that the gentleman could not tell it from the
   cardinal’s own. “Even when hearing the two performers almost
   together, I could distinguish only a slight difference, which
   was not in the cardinal’s favor.”--OLIVE THORNE MILLER,
   “The Bird Our Brother.”

    (156)


                         ASSOCIATIONS MOLD MEN

Among the doctrines of Belial is the theory that we must familiarize
ourselves with evil if we would have power to resist it.

   Jean François Millet in the middle of the last century was
   engaged on his early pictures. As they appeared one after
   another they astonished and delighted all lovers of art
   throughout the world. What were the subjects of these wonderful
   paintings? They were all deeply religious--the “Angelus,” the
   “Sower,” the “Man with the Hoe,” the “Winnower,” the “Gleaners.”
   These masterpieces were not only spiritual, but were replete
   with beauty, pathos, power, and with all the works of the
   highest genius. Now, the theory had been popular that an artist
   must revel in fleshly and voluptuous presentations of life. But
   Millet hated the salaciousness of Greece, and Rome was abhorrent
   to him. He was a lifelong lover of his Bible, and his life was
   one of devotion and purity. (Text.)

    (157)


                               ASSURANCE

Among the Hebrews is preserved a legend of two sisters, who on the
night of the Exodus, when the destroying angel passed through the land
of Egypt, remained indoors with the family.

   One was ready for the departure, and filled with assurance and
   peace, so partaking of the paschal lamb. The other was restless
   and fearful lest the death angel would not pass them by. “Is
   the blood sprinkled?” she kept asking anxiously, reproaching
   her confident sister for being so unconcerned. “Oh, is it
   sprinkled?” “Why, yes,” said the sister, “the blood has been
   sprinkled, and we have God’s word that when He sees the blood He
   will pass over.”

    (158)


   =Assurance from Doing God’s Will=--See TEMPERATURE.


   =Astrology=--See BIRTH CEREMONIES.


                               ASYMMETRY

Men are one-sided in their views and opinions as truly as in the use
of their hands. There was never but one character that was perfectly
symmetrical:

   Why shouldn’t we work with two hands just as we walk with two
   feet? It seems ridiculous that the human family should have
   been using but one hand, either left or right, when nature
   provided two good hands with no apparent reason why they should
   not both be used. This oversight, or neglect, is being remedied
   at a school in Philadelphia, where the pupils are learning to
   use either hand with equal facility. The boys and girls are
   taught to draw with the right and left hand at once, and it is
   marvelous with what ease, after a little practise, the pupils
   can draw a design on the blackboard, using the right hand for
   the right side of the picture and the left hand for the left
   side, completing the entire design in a few minutes, the two
   hands working with perfect coordination. Compared with the old
   method of drawing laboriously and slowly with one hand, the
   ambidextrous system is infinitely superior.

    (159)


                      ATHEIST’S GIFT TO MISSIONS

   In the year 1877, Col. Robert G. Ingersoll made an extended
   tour of the Pacific coast. He spoke in several of the larger
   cities, and at length arrived at Portland. There was in the
   city a certain missionary to the Chinooks. He could not afford
   a ticket to the lecture, and was greatly disturbed at what he
   read concerning it. Yet he felt a strong desire to meet Colonel
   Ingersoll, and a common friend procured a meeting between them.

   There was a moment of restraint, relieved by the greater ease
   of Colonel Ingersoll, who began the conversation by inquiring
   concerning the work of the missionary. A little mirthfully he
   questioned him about the advisability of exporting religion,
   of which there might not be any surplus at home, and inquired,
   somewhat doubtfully, about the wisdom of a man giving his life
   to a hopeless task in attempting to teach a small and vanishing
   tribe things of which we ourselves have perhaps less knowledge
   than we suppose.

   The answers of the missionary, however, interested Colonel
   Ingersoll. He inquired about the “Chinook jargon,” that mongrel
   speech, made of English, Canadian French, Chinook and other
   Indian words, picked up from several tribes, and all softened
   and modified to suit deficiencies of pronunciation; the _r_
   changed into _l_, after the Chinese manner, and the grammar
   “made by chopping up words with a tomahawk.”

   How could a man preach in a language where one word had to serve
   as noun, verb and adjective? How could a man of education make
   himself understood in a language with only four parts of speech
   and some fragments? How could he tell the story of Peter’s
   denial in a language which, having only one word for all manner
   of feathered things, and no verb for the act of crowing, made
   it necessary for the speaker to imitate the act and sound? How
   could he tell that Peter swore, in a language that had no verb
   “to curse,” but had plenty of oaths inherited from traders in
   various tongues? How could he impart any idea of sacred things
   in a polyglot of slang?

   The missionary told him the story of his work--how he preached
   as best he could in the poor, meager speech of the people,
   meantime teaching the children English, encouraging them in
   useful arts, fighting the vices of civilization as they made
   inroads among the people, and doing what he could for them as
   adviser and friend. It was hard work, and not very encouraging,
   but it was worth doing, and he was happy in it.

   In telling his story thus, encouraged and led on by a man
   trained and skilful in cross-examination, the missionary
   unconsciously disclosed many of the hardships and privations
   which his work entailed upon him. Possibly, and indeed probably,
   he had not thought of them seriously as hardships, and therefore
   he related with telling simplicity the stories of long journeys
   by canoe and on horseback, of nights in the open, of poor and
   sometimes revolting food eaten in savage company. There was no
   word of complaint, nor even the least expression of regret,
   except for books and papers and magazines missed.

   When the missionary rose to go, Colonel Ingersoll took his
   hand warmly, and said, “I thank you for coming to see me. This
   interests me very much. It’s good work you are doing, it’s good
   work. And here, take this. I am not a frequent contributor to
   missionary work, but I like this.”

   Into the missionary’s hand he dropt a bright twenty-dollar gold
   piece.--_Youth’s Companion._

    (160)


   =Atmosphere=--See IMPURITIES.


   =Atmosphere, City=--See TESTS.


   =Atmosphere, The, and Light=--See LIGHT-BEARERS.


   =Atmosphere, The Christian=--See HOSPITALITY IN CHURCH.


                      ATOM, THE, A WITNESS TO GOD

Not only “day unto day, uttereth speech,” but, according to science,
there are innumerable voices in the world that also speak of God. A
writer finds such in the atom of matter:

   How then came they to be what they are? These “myriad types of
   the same letter”; these unhewn blocks from an unknown quarry;
   more indestructible than adamant; the substratum of all the
   phenomena of the universe; and yet, amid the wreck of all things
   else, this infinitude of discrete atoms alone is found incapable
   of change or of decay. Who preserves to them their absolute
   identity, notwithstanding their infinite variety? Who endowed
   them with their inalienable properties? Who imprest upon them
   the ineffaceable characters which they are found to bear? At
   what mint were they struck, on what anvil were they forged, in
   what loom were they woven, so as to possess, as Huxley declares,
   “all the characteristics of manufactured articles”?

    (161)


                               ATONEMENT

All the theological interpretations of atonement look back to the Old
Testament Hebrew terms _kaphar_ and _kasah_ “to cover.” We
are saved by an atoning sacrifice; that is, by a sacrifice which covers
us.

   A fire on a gentleman’s estate in England destroyed his mansion.
   It spread to a plantation near by, and trees and bushes were
   burned and charred. The gentleman next day heard the chirping of
   little birds in a blackened thicket close by him. He searched
   among the charred branches and discovered a nest, on which was
   lying, with outstretched wings, a dead robin. Under her were
   three fledglings, safe and sound. The mother bird had covered
   her young, saving them at the cost of her own life. (Text.)

    (162)


                          ATONEMENT COMPELLED

   There is a Spanish story of a village where the devil, having
   made the people excessively wicked, was punished by being
   compelled to assume the appearance and habit of a friar, and to
   preach so eloquently, in spite of his internal repugnance and
   rage, that the inhabitants were completely reformed. (Text.)

    (163)

   See SIN WITHOUT ATONEMENT.


                                ATROPHY

Professor Dawson, in his book “The Child and His Religion,” says:

   I once saw a little girl of three years who was unable to walk,
   or even stand alone. She would make no attempt to do either,
   and seemed to have absolutely no interest in getting up on
   her feet or walking. The child seemed perfectly well, and her
   parents had become very anxious about her. Inquiry revealed the
   fact that when she was nine months old the little girl had been
   injured by a fall, and had been kept very closely confined for
   six months; at first in her crib, and later in a high chair,
   never being allowed to stand on her feet. When she was at last
   put upon the floor, she began her creeping just as she had been
   in the habit of doing six months before. Nor did she show any
   disposition to do otherwise than creep, even after her strength
   had been fully recovered. It required several months of careful
   attention on the part of the parents, in exercising her in
   standing and walking, to awaken any interest whatsoever in these
   activities. This law of atrophy through disuse undoubtedly
   operates throughout the entire range of human interests, not
   only in those interests more closely related to organic life,
   but also in the intellectual, moral, and religious interests. It
   is manifestly of great concern to parents and others who have
   the care of children that all normal interests be given a chance
   to function at the right time and in the right way. (Text.)

    (164)


                          ATTACHMENT REWARDED

   In order to secure some token by which to remember a great-aunt
   to whom she had been much attached, Mlle. Bertha Chevanne, a
   young French woman, of Paris, attended a sale of the old lady’s
   effects. The girl was poor and most of the articles were beyond
   her purse. A shabby old book--a book of devotions--was, however,
   put up. Nobody bid for it except Mademoiselle Chevanne, and she
   bought it for next to nothing. In turning over the leaves she
   came across a folded paper. It was a will bequeathing her the
   whole of her great-aunt’s estate, valued at $80,000.

    (165)


                         ATTACK, DISCRETION IN

As with a fortress, so with many fortified evils. It is often better to
flank them than to exhaust strength by direct attack.

   To let a fortress go, so far from being disgraceful, is
   often one of the best things a general can do. If MacMahon
   had let Metz go, the Germans could not have got round Paris
   without tremendous losses and months of fighting. If Lee had
   abandoned Richmond in 1862 the war might have been protracted
   indefinitely. The greatest mistake Osman Pasha made in 1877 was
   holding on to Plevna too long. Napoleon let Genoa go in spite of
   the fine defense of Massena, but he soon recovered it after he
   had defeated the Austrians in the field. In the American civil
   war Burnside was compelled by the press to advance, with the
   result of the failure at Fredericksburg and the loss of 12,000
   men. A field army should never be risked for a fortress.--Dr.
   MILLER MAGUIRE, London _News_.

    (166)

   See AGGRESSION; SALOON, FIGHTING THE.


   =Attainment by Abandonment=--See HIGHER, THE.


                        ATTAINMENT, SUPERFICIAL

There are men who attempt to rise in the social scale without any
apparent fitness for the larger place aspired to. Many start off on a
course, but lack ability, patience and pluck to persevere and so fail
of their goal, as the following somewhat humorous illustration suggests:

   Attorney William S. Barnes, of San Francisco, has a new office
   boy. The last boy with whom he was associated resigned a few
   days ago because the law business did not suit his peculiar
   temperament.

   “How long have you been here?” asked Barnes, when the small boy
   made known his intention to engage in a different vocation.

   “Six months,” replied the boy.

   “And you don’t like the law business?”

   “Naw. It’s no good, and I tell you straight, I’m mighty sorry I
   learned it.”

    (167)


   =Audience Attracted=--See PROVIDENTIAL INTERPOSITION.


                      AUDIENCE, INSPIRATION FROM

   “When a singer is up before an audience, he or she can tell
   whether the effect of the voice is pleasing or not by watching
   the countenances of the listeners,” says Thomas A. Edison in
   _Popular Mechanics_. “When, however, one sings into a
   dead instrument like the phonograph, without the slightest
   recognition as to whether the voice is properly tuned and
   pitched, the singer becomes rather nervous. I know some very
   capable singers who can sing splendidly before an audience, but
   when it comes to getting their voice into the phonograph, they
   are dumb. I have brought people of great note out to the works,
   and paid them handsomely for their vocal efforts, only to find,
   when I came to reproduce these attempts on the phonograph, that
   the records were utterly worthless. One must have, indeed, a
   regular phonograph voice in order to make a good record. Some
   people can sing well into a phonograph who could not get up
   before an audience to save their lives; and again, as I have
   said, some people can sing before persons, but they can not
   perform before a phonograph.”

    (168)


   =Audiences=--See FITNESS; OPPORTUNITIES IMPROVED.


                                AUGURY

The apostle who said “I know in whom I have believed, and am persuaded
that he is able, &c.,” had a far better assurance than the philosopher
who trusted in a meaningless omen.

   Rousseau, in his celebrated “Confessions,” records that he was
   one day sitting in a grove, meditating whether his soul would
   probably be saved or lost. How could he settle the question? A
   supernatural voice seemed to suggest an appeal to a singular
   kind of augury. “I will,” said he, “throw this stone at that
   tree. If I hit the tree, it shall be a sign that my soul is to
   be saved. If I miss it, it shall indicate that I am to be lost.”
   Selecting a large tree, he took the precaution of standing near
   to it, and threw his stone plump against the trunk. “After
   that,” naively says the philosopher, “I never again had a doubt
   respecting my salvation.”

    (169)


   =Author Encouraged=--See Good, SEEING THE.


                    AUTHORITY UNCONSCIOUSLY SOUGHT

   The child finds the world so complex and varied with so many
   unpleasant and pleasant experiences that he soon discovers
   the usefulness of his elders in providing him with pleasant
   experiences or in warning or guarding him against the unpleasant
   whenever he feels uncertain in a new situation. That is, the
   child tends to fall back on the authority of the older person
   and automatically to accept, up to a certain point, the dogmatic
   verdict of his elders as to the desirability or undesirability
   of a course of action. Neither the child nor the grown person
   is, as a rule, conscious of his acceptance of the thought of
   another as his own, but examples of it are evident enough in the
   spheres of religion, politics, precedent (in law), fashion, and,
   in fact, all of life’s activities.--STUART H. ROWE,
   “Proceedings of the Religious Education Association,” 1907.

    (170)


   =Authority=--See RISK SHIFTED.


                           AUTHORS, WORK OF

   George Eliot is said to have worked harder on “Romola” than
   on any of her other books. In her own words: “I began it a
   young woman--I finished it an old woman.” And yet but about
   seventeen months were consumed in the work. Some authors have
   lived long. Alexander von Humboldt lived to be over eighty.
   Goethe was over eighty-one when he died. Kant lived his quiet
   life for just eighty years, the quietest and most uneventful
   life known to a man of genius. Titian died at the age of
   ninety-nine. Michelangelo lived to be more than eighty. Among
   the royal persons who have become known as authors are Queen
   Victoria, King Oscar II, of Sweden; Dom Louis, of Portugal;
   the Shar Nasr-ed Deen, of Persia; Queen Elizabeth, of Rumania;
   Prince Nicholas, of Montenegro; Dom Pedro II, of Brazil; King
   Louis II, of Bavaria, and several others. The novelists are
   at present dominant among us, so far as popular acceptation
   and remuneration go. It has been lately ascertained that Mr.
   Tennyson made four thousand pounds a year by his poetry. Walter
   Besant, who was seduced from the career of a college don by
   the fascinations of the novelist’s art, earns more for any one
   of his romances than Carlyle earned in the first ten years of
   his literary career. Charles Reade averaged, we believe, five
   pounds per page for his writings. Herbert Spencer’s remuneration
   scarcely exceeded five shillings per page. Matthew Arnold’s
   imaginative powers earned him an income at least four times
   smaller than Wilkie Collins’ imagination could command. A
   shoemaker’s son, a few years ago, wrote a short comic story
   which tickled the public taste; his success was so immediate
   that the public--represented by the publishers--afterward
   paid him one thousand pounds a year for whatever he chose to
   write.--_Christian At Work._

    (171)


   =Autograph Diplomacy=--See ASKING, BOLDNESS IN.


                         AUTOMATIC EXPERIENCES

   Man early acquires automatic tendencies and abilities quite
   beyond the compass of his natural equipment. Man is gifted
   natively with a brief and fleeting form of attention, but by
   exercise and wise guidance its effectiveness may be greatly
   increased both as to direction and span. Imagination and memory
   may be natively vigorous in a desultory and disorganized sort
   of a way and yet be comparatively helpless when confronted with
   a situation requiring the organization of details into a system
   or unit. For example, children may get a great deal of pleasure
   out of fairy stories long before they understand much from the
   various disconnected and often incorrect interpretations they
   make of the words they have heard. This tendency is shown also
   in childish explanations of things. One young man notices that
   leaves, sticks, and stones left standing some time on the pond
   where he skated gradually sink into the ice. He notices, also,
   that slight scratches and flakes of snow gradually disappear.
   Such data led him to explain to himself the phenomenon as
   due to the fact that the water worked through the pores of
   the ice and froze on the top. It is evident that he had not
   heard of radiation from dark as compared with light surfaces,
   but it illustrated an automatic tendency to explain things
   fairly well developed which was quite beyond the power of
   man naturally.--STUART H. ROWE, “Proceedings of the
   Religious Education Association,” 1907.

    (172)


                          AUTOMATIC LEARNING

   Nature has provided plants, animals, and man with many ways of
   adjusting themselves to their environment, but only animals
   and man organize their experiences so as to make them of use
   to them in future situations. Some kinds of mice can learn
   to go to a little house with a blue-colored front because it
   suggests food to them as they have always found it there, and
   not in a similar one with a red front. Another kind of mouse
   (the Japanese dancing mouse) does not learn this difference,
   either because it is color-blind or, much more likely, because
   it has not sufficient intelligence to organize its experiences
   of blueness by making it suggest food to him. It has been said
   bees can distinguish colors and associate them with sweetened
   water. These animals, and, in fact, animals in general, have the
   ability, as we say, naturally to do thousands of appropriate
   things whenever the appropriate stimulus presents itself.
   Given the newly hatched chicken and the attractive piece of
   corn within easy range, and with a quick dive of the head
   the corn has been snapt up by a series of muscular movements
   quite complicated in their totality but all coordinated or
   organized from the first. The chicken does not have to learn
   this accomplishment. A young child also can perform many kinds
   of action without learning, as, for example, movements of head,
   limbs, and other parts of the body.

   Compare the difficulty a year-old child able to walk has in
   picking up something with his hands. He makes many motions,
   sometimes overreaching, sometimes falling short, in the end
   probably falls flat. The child has to learn both to walk and to
   pick things up, but he learns both without realizing that he is
   learning them. It is done spontaneously.

   There are, then, some things that man and animals can do without
   learning, and some things they have to learn, but that they
   learn automatically. Beside these easier tasks there are many
   others that man may learn, but only through definite thinking or
   direction with a distinct aim in view, rather than automatically
   without any consciousness of his learning. The child may
   recognize his father’s authority instinctively even without
   learning. He may by imitation think of some things as right or
   wrong without being taught. There are others he must be taught
   and learn with a definite purpose and effort or he will not
   make the distinction.--STUART H. ROWE, “Proceedings of
   Religious Education Association,” 1907.

    (173)


   =Auxiliary Strength=--See REENFORCEMENT FROM WITHOUT.


   =Auxiliary Workers=--See SUPPLIES, BRINGING UP.


                                AVARICE

   When you can put out a fire by throwing oil on it, then, and
   not till then, can you extinguish avarice by feeding it with
   millions.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (174)

   See GREED; MONEY, GREED FOR.


                             AVERAGE LIFE

   Many an enthusiastic tourist has sacrificed morning sleep to
   witness a sunrise from some summit, and suffered disappointment.
   The splendor extended over too wide an area; it lacked
   concentration--accentuation. The sunrise of the short horizon,
   seen from the average altitude, appears brighter as well as
   narrower. It requires no wide ranging of the eye, no shifting of
   the point of attention. It is not weakened by its own diffusion.
   You may carry this principle over into the philosophy of life.
   The short horizon--which is, for the most part, the average--has
   its distinct advantage. You will doubtless get more out of
   life at the average altitude than if you live always in some
   extraordinary height.

    (175)




                                   B


                            BABIES, NAMING

   In Japan a curious custom is in vogue with respect to the naming
   of babies. The new-born is taken to the temple, when it has
   attained the age of two weeks, and to the priest who receives
   him the father of the little one suggests three names deemed to
   be appropriate. The priest writes these three names on slips of
   paper. He holds these slips of paper for a few minutes, and then
   throws them over his shoulder, sending them as high in the air
   as possible. The slip that reaches the ground last contains the
   name that is conferred on the waiting baby.

   The next step in the process is for the priest to copy the name
   on a piece of silk or fine paper, which is handed to the proud
   parent, with these words:

   “So shall the child be named.”--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (176)


   =Baby, Captivated by a=--See CHILD, SAVED BY A.


   =Baby’s Thinking=--See THINKING, HOW COORDINATED.


                               BACKBONE

   Any good quality needs backbone to make it effective. The little
   boy who read aloud, “Now Daniel had an excellent spine in him,”
   when the letters spelled “spirit,” was not so far from the truth
   after all. All of God’s servants need spine.--JAMES M.
   STIFLER, “The Fighting Saint.”

    (177)


                          BACKGROUND OF LIGHT

There is often great advantage in a position of obscurity from which to
look out on the world. The lace-weavers of Nottingham founded a great
industry in caves, as described below:

   This great (lace) industry here began in this way: There is, or
   was, originally, a long, high bank of very soft sandstone on the
   north bank of the river Trent, pointing to the sun. In this soft
   sandstone the early Britons dug caves. They dug them deep and
   wide and wonderful in construction. It is said that even now the
   city of caves under the ground is almost as large as the broad
   and populous city on top of the ground. In case of invasion or
   conquest these cave-dwellers would retreat underground and defy
   pursuit. It is the boast of the people of Nottingham that their
   ancestors were never really conquered by any one. The weaving
   of laces came about here in this way: The half or wholly savage
   women sitting at the mouths of these caves and holding their
   threads against the sun with the darkness behind them could
   see the fine threads better, and so could do finer and better
   work than any other women in western Europe. And their immunity
   from conquest and consequent interruption in their peculiar
   industry fastened it here and kept it well forward.--JOAQUIN
   MILLER, _The Independent_.

    (178)


   =Backslider Regained=--See WARMTH, LOST.


   =Bacteria=--See CLEANSING, DIFFICULTY OF.


                                BADGES

   Everywhere on the streets one meets men, from the gray-haired
   veteran to the half-developed beau, all parading on breast
   or coat lapel some distinctive mark of membership in some
   association. There are medals with ribbons, medals without
   ribbons, and ribbons without medals. There are buttons; big
   buttons and little buttons; silk buttons and metal buttons.
   There are pins, gold and silver and plated; every imaginable
   kind of pin. And these are worn by ladies and misses of all
   rank and quality, down to the little silver cross of the King’s
   Daughters, so familiar everywhere. Nobody seems ashamed to
   own membership in these various societies and alliances. Men
   parade the streets under banners and flags, with uniforms, and
   distinctive feathers in their caps, and are not ashamed to
   acknowledge their favorite organizations. And yet there are
   many persons who seem to be ashamed to own their Lord and to
   confess His cause. (Text.)--_The Mid-Continent._

    (179)


   =Bad Company=--See COMPANIONS, EVIL.


   =Bad to Worse=--See DOWN GRADE, THE.


                            BADNESS IN BOYS

   “He is a bad boy” may mean so many things. In the eyes of some
   teachers a boy is “bad” if he talks repeatedly to his neighbor.
   The boy who has a fight with another boy is “bad.” The boy who
   does not study his lessons is “bad.” The boy who goes to a
   moving-picture show is “bad.” The boy who throws ink across the
   room is “bad.” The boy who “answers back” is “bad.” The boy who
   rifles the teacher’s desk is “bad.” The boy who disobeys school
   rules is “bad.” “Give a dog a bad name and hang him” should now
   read, “Give a boy a bad name and ruin him.”

   All school types of “badness” need classification. Many
   of them under careful classification would no longer be
   considered “bad.” A boy’s wrong acts are often due not so much
   to deliberate choosing of wrong after he knows right, but to
   the lack of any sense of right or wrong. Children’s so-called
   “badness” is due to unmorality oftener than to immorality. Until
   a boy’s moral nature has been roused and developed, it is absurd
   to think that one can find the basis of appeal in theoretic
   ethics or right for right’s sake. Who is to blame when blind,
   unquestioning obedience to short-sighted, arbitrary school rules
   is made the basis of a child’s conduct and reputation?

   When children go through school learning nothing except what
   can be given to hundreds simultaneously, in classes so large
   that undue emphasis is laid upon order and quiet, who is to
   blame if the majority leave school with morals that alarm those
   interested? Go through the list of “bad boys” in your school or
   your town. Classify their offenses. Is immorality or unmorality
   responsible? If the latter, what share of the blame for this
   condition belongs to the school? Why consider a boy hopeless or
   degenerate because he commits a moral offense? Do we consider
   him intellectually hopeless or defective because of his errors
   in spelling or arithmetic?--JULIA RICHMAN, “Proceedings
   of the National Education Association,” 1909.

    (180)


                           BALANCE, A LOOSE

Many men think they can rely in a general way upon fate or fortune to
square their moral accounts, but in the long run a man must face his
record.

   Mr. Moody tells of a young couple who on commencing to keep
   house started to keep an account of their family expenses. After
   a few months the young husband said to his wife: “Darling, I’ll
   spend the evening at home to-night, and we will look over the
   account together.” The young husband found frequent entries
   like this: “G.K.W., one dollar and a half”; and a little later
   on, “G.K.W., two dollars”; and after a little, “G.K.W., three
   dollars.” Becoming a little suspicious, he demanded, “Who is
   this ‘G.K.W.’ you have spent so much on?” “Oh,” said she, “I
   never could make the accounts come out right, so I lumped all
   together that wouldn’t balance, and called it G.K.W.--Goodness
   Knows What!” (Text.)--LOUIS ALBERT BANKS.

    (181)


                        BALANCE OF JESUS’ MIND

   In our earth, the two hemispheres are balanced to a hair and
   leaf! But what man save Jesus has balanced his radicalism that
   was sound by a conservatism that is true?--N. D. HILLIS.

    (182)


                      BALANCE PRESERVED IN NATURE

   Since times prehistoric, ever since the human species developed
   the sense of comparison and an eye for form, all spiders, with
   a resemblance to the big, hairy, ugly creatures reputed to be
   poisonous and now generally known by the name “tarantula,” have
   been the victims of the crushing heel.

   I think it can be said that there never has been one absolutely
   authentic case of spider bite. The so-called spider bites
   received occasionally, and generally in early summer, often in
   bed, are inflicted by certain bloodsucking insects of several
   species, large and small. The mandibles of the average-sized
   spiders are hardly powerful enough to pierce the human skin, and
   all of the poison contained in an arachnid’s glands, injected
   into the flesh of a human being, will not make as much fuss
   as a respectable bee-sting. Moreover, spiders are not mammal
   blood-suckers, and wouldn’t bite if they could. So much for the
   negative qualities of spiders.

   If it were not for the spiders we should all promptly starve
   to death. Perhaps this is a little startling; it is none the
   less true. To enlarge upon it, certain spiders prey upon
   certain caterpillars, regularly inhabit their abodes, and kill
   so many of them that often whole colonies of the insects are
   wiped out of existence. These caterpillars normally feed upon
   the leaves of trees, bushes, and shrubs, frequently denuding a
   plant entirely. If they were plentiful enough to exhaust their
   common food they would turn to the weeds and grasses. Without
   check of any kind they would overrun the earth and destroy
   every green and growing thing. The spiders beautifully preserve
   the balance of nature. Kill all the spiders and mankind is
   doomed.--_Collier’s Weekly._

    (183)


                             BALLOT A DUTY

“Arrow,” in the _Christian Endeavor World_, reads this lesson to
Christian voters:

   “Well, I suppose it’s Alderman Smith to-day.”

   “Alderman--nothing!”

   “What? Do you mean to say Smith wasn’t elected?”

   “Precisely. Lost it by forty-one votes.”

   “Well, well, well! Why, I thought Smith was popular, such a
   nice, clean fellow; and smart, too.”

   “He is popular.”

   “And I thought his opponent was a scallawag.”

   “He is. The rummies were all for him, and he celebrated his
   victory with a big free-for-all debauch. I guess our ward’ll be
   open enough now, all right.”

   “But what was the matter? I suppose Smith lay back and took it
   easy.”

   “No, sir! He got out and hustled for himself.”

   “Then he probably had no machine to back him.”

   “Ah, but he had; and some of the best politicians in the city
   worked for him. Why, nearly all the strongest men in the ward
   signed a paper in his interest, and every one got a copy a day
   before the election.”

   “But they couldn’t have known the issue at stake--between
   decency and indecency, character and hoodlumism.”

   “They did, if words could make it clear.”

   “Then why, in the name of all that is reasonable, in that pious
   ward of yours, wasn’t Smith elected?”

   “Just because about sixty of the pious men stayed at home or let
   their sons neglect to vote. We know the names of that many who
   didn’t vote. Tried to get them to come out, telephone and all
   that; but no good. Too busy. Or they ‘weren’t needed.’ And the
   other side got out every man.”

   “Those pious men go to prayer-meeting?”

   “Well, I don’t know what you think about it, but I’d rather have
   one X opposite Smith’s name on that ballot than ten years of
   prayer-meeting eloquence without it.”

   “Yes, most of them; and my! but they shine when the topic is a
   patriotic one.”

   “So’d I.” (Text.)

    (184)


   =Banks, Making, Useful=--See SAVING DISAPPROVED.


                                BAPTISM

Dr. R. F. Horton, in the _Christian Endeavor World_, tells the
following story:

   There is a scene in my earlier ministry that used to make the
   best woman I ever knew laugh till the tears ran down her cheeks
   whenever she recalled it.

   A father, a tall and dignified man, with his wife, a gentle,
   quiet little lady, had brought the baby to the font that Sunday
   morning. As I read the opening words, the baby woke and began
   to scream. For my own part I was imperturbable, nor was the
   mother upset. But the tall, dignified man could not endure it;
   and just as I was approaching the actual rite, and required the
   baby, what the congregation saw was the father rapidly striding
   to a side door, with the white clothes of the screaming infant
   streaming behind in the haste of the flight. Happily parental
   authority worked miracles in the corridor, and the infant,
   vastly pacified, was brought back just in time to save the
   service from being a fiasco. And the humor turns into a deeper
   joy when now I see that child grown up into a beautiful girl,
   the joy of her parents and of all who behold her.

    (185)


                          BAPTISM INTERPRETED

At the Student Volunteer Convention in Toronto, Dr. Horace G. Underwood
told the following incident:

   A copy of the Book of the Acts fell into the hands of a Korean,
   whose heart was touched by the truths. He gathered his villagers
   together and taught them its contents and they sent for
   missionaries to come to them. It was impossible for them to go
   at once, but they sent copies of the Gospels. The eager Koreans
   read and studied as well as they could alone, and noticing that
   some “washing rite” was enjoined upon the believers in the Jesus
   doctrine, they met to discuss how they should follow it out and
   thus fulfil all righteousness. They prayed over it for a time,
   and at last decided that each should go to his own home and
   reverently should wash himself in the name of the Father and of
   the Son and of the Holy Ghost. (Text.)

    (186)


                               BARBARISM

   The missionaries to the Dyaks of Borneo, in making their calls
   not infrequently are seated in a position of honor in a native
   hut underneath a huge cluster of skulls, the war trophy of the
   head-hunting Dyaks. Rev. H. L. E. Luering writes in the London
   _Christian_ that the natives believe that the courage of
   the slain enemy enters his victor’s soul if the head of the
   dead man is in his possession. So the heads are cut off and
   placed in loose rattan receptacles and smoked over a slow fire,
   and polished and strung up like great bunches of grapes, and
   guarded with a jealousy greater than is accorded any other
   possession. They represent just so much of the owner’s self--his
   own soul--and to lose a head would deprive him of just so much
   strength and courage.

    (187)

       *       *       *       *       *

The late Bishop Taylor, of Africa, narrated the following in the
_Missionary Review of the World_:

   I saw a woman who had been accused of witchcraft and condemned
   to death by exposure to ferocious ants. She was bound to a big
   ant-hill ten or fifteen feet high. The victim usually dies in
   two days, but this woman endured it for five days and was then
   driven away because “she was too hard to kill.” She crawled in
   a terrible condition to the mission station--the most pitiful
   sight the missionary had ever beheld. After months of careful
   nursing she recovered, and this woman, so terribly scarred and
   disfigured, was converted at one of my meetings.

    (188)

   See CRUEL GREED.


                        BARGAIN DISCOUNTENANCED

   It was proposed to the Duke of Wellington to purchase a certain
   farm in the neighborhood of his estate at Strathfieldsaye. He
   assented. When the transfer was completed, his steward, who had
   made the purchase, congratulated him upon having made a great
   bargain, as the seller was in difficulties, and forced to part
   with his farm. “What do you mean by a bargain?” asked the Duke.
   The steward replied, “It was valued at £5,500, and we got it
   for £4,000.” “In that case,” said the Duke, “you will please to
   carry the extra £1,500 to the late owner, and never talk to me
   of cheap land again.”

    (189)


                            BARGAIN-MAKING

   A former queen of Spain once rode out in the country, when the
   driver of the royal carriage became lost and spent two hours
   vainly trying to find the way. The queen and the infanta were
   somewhat alarmed.

   All at once they came upon an old wood-cutter, who, with a bunch
   of fagots upon his back, gathered laboriously from the stunted
   bushes to be found here and there, had sunk down to the ground,
   evidently for a moment’s rest.

   “Ho, my good man!” the driver of the royal carriage called out.
   “Will you tell us the road to Madrid?”

   “No,” said the wood-cutter, “I will not, except on one
   condition.”

   “What’s that?”

   “That you take me in and carry me back to the city.”

   The coachman declined to do this.

   “Very well, then; find the road yourself,” said the wood-cutter.

   The queen here intervened. She ordered the coachman to let the
   man tie his fagot at the back of the coach, and to take him upon
   the driver’s seat and drive him home.

   The man tied his rough fagot at the back of the royal coach,
   mounted the box, and the road to Madrid was soon found.

   When the royal carriage entered the city in this queer state,
   there was a great sensation, as the people readily recognized
   the equipage. The wood-cutter sat proudly on the box. When his
   quarter was reached, he got down and unfastened his fagot. The
   queen put her head out of the door.

   “Go to the royal palace to-morrow,” she said, “and your service
   will be rewarded.”

   The old man, suddenly perceiving whose passenger he had been,
   was overcome with humiliation. He stood bowing, rubbing his cap
   between his hands, and uttering exclamations of astonishment
   until the carriage was out of sight.--_The Christian
   Register._

    (190)


                               BARRIERS

   In the West, the farmer’s boy makes a trap for prairie-chickens
   and wild turkeys. Looking toward the corn, the bird pushes
   against the tiny wooden bar that yields for admittance. But
   having gotten in, the gate will not push out.

   When it is too late, the youth who has played false, finds that
   the way into sin was easy, and the way out hard. Strange that
   there should not be a single barrier in the downward path, but
   that when the transgressor turns to retrace his steps that
   red-hot iron barriers are in the path!--N. D. HILLIS.

    (191)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The water-hyacinth is a beautiful thing, so beautiful that some
   years ago an enterprising gentleman decided to introduce it
   in Florida. As it turned out, he not only introduced it, but
   he made it a part of the country. It has outgrown all bounds,
   formed impassible barriers in streams, caused the Government to
   spend thousands to get rid of it, and is still an impediment to
   navigation in many rivers all over the South.

   The situation has become so serious in Louisiana that
   it is proposed to import hippopotami. At first thought,
   few will be able to see any relation between hippopotami
   and water-hyacinths, yet there is. In fact, the ordinary
   hippopotamus eats water-hyacinth from morning until night if he
   can get it. It is evident, therefore, that were there plenty of
   hippopotami in Louisiana there would soon be no water-hyacinth.
   It is for this reason that the Government will be asked to
   import the beasts, domesticate them, and turn them loose in
   Louisiana.

   The hippopotamus is not a dangerous brute--altho Mr. Roosevelt
   has taken much credit to himself for having killed some of
   them--his flesh makes excellent steaks, particularly if he has
   fed on water-hyacinth, and he is altogether a desirable creature
   to have about, we are told. We trust that the Government will
   act quickly in this matter. Perhaps in addition to being fond
   of water-hyacinth the hippopotamus may also have an appetite
   for the boll-weevil. Let Louisiana have the beasts by all
   means.--_Charleston News and Courier._

    (192)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The conquering races were compelled to follow river-beds, and
   could not penetrate the forests. It was not the warrior who
   finally conquered English soil, but the farmer. The half-dozen
   kingdoms, which were divided by vast forests, coalesced only
   when the ax cut away barriers. Earlier races could not inhabit
   any part of the earth except the coast lines. All their food
   came from the sea; and the refuse still remains as the great
   shell-heaps of the sea-coasts of Europe.

So to-day in the moral world one must cleave his way through barriers
as with an ax to the open of a large place.

    (193)

   See DISHONESTY.


                        BARRIERS, SUPERNATURAL

   During some recent work in West Africa, a certain native chief
   was anxious to prevent my explorations of such creeks and rivers
   as led to trading districts which he desired to remain unknown.
   Finding verbal dissuasions unavailing, and not liking to have
   recourse to physical force, he tried as a last and somewhat
   despairing resort to place supernatural obstacles in my way;
   so he directed that at the entrance to these forbidden creeks
   a live white fowl (lowest and cheapest sacrifice) should be
   suspended from a palm-stake. Consequently, I was frequently
   surprized and pleased at what I thought was a graceful token of
   hospitality posted at different points of my journey, and never
   failed to turn the fowl to account in my bill of fare. After
   this manner of disposing of the fowl-fetish had occurred several
   times, and yet I remained unpunished for my temerity by the
   local gods, the natives gave up further opposition to my journey
   as futile and expensive. In talking this over on my return with
   one of the more advanced chiefs of the district, my native
   friend shook his head half humorously, half seriously over the
   decay of religious belief. A white fowl, he said, was “poor
   man’s juju”; a few years ago it would have been a white goat,
   and in his father’s time a white boy (albino negro), spitted
   on a stake to bar the way, and this last would have been a
   sacrifice that might well have moved the local gods of wold and
   stream to intervene.--H. H. JOHNSTON, _Fortnightly
   Review_.

    (194)


   =Battle Against Frailty=--See BODY, MASTERING THE.


   =Beating Process a Necessity=--See DISCIPLINE.


                      BEAUTIFUL, INFLUENCE OF THE

Every one is influenced to a greater or less degree by that which he
sees about him, and those with whom he comes in contact.

   A beautiful statue once stood in the market-place of an Italian
   city. It was the statue of a Greek slave-girl. It represented
   the slave as tidy and well drest. A ragged, uncombed little
   street child, coming across the statue in her play, stopt and
   gazed at it in admiration. She was captivated by it. She gazed
   long and lovingly. Moved by a sudden impulse, she went home and
   washed her face and combed her hair. Another day she stopt again
   before the statue and admired it, and she got a new idea. Next
   day her tattered clothes were washed and mended. Each time she
   looked at the statue she found something in its beauties until
   she was a transformed child.

This law of transformation through appreciation has its highest
illustration in the changed life and character of men who have lived in
communion with God.

    (195)


                       BEAUTIFUL LIFE, SECRET OF

   In the legend of the “Great Stone Face” Hawthorne tells us
   how a great soul was formed by constantly looking at an ideal
   head formed by rocks on the side of a mountain. Ernest had
   been told by his mother that some day or other (so the people
   in the valley believed) a man would grow up from among them
   who would be the greatest man of his time, and that his face
   would resemble the face outlined on the rocks of the mountain.
   So Ernest waited, and finally a man who had become very rich
   came back to the valley and built a palace, and people thought
   for a time that the legend had been fulfilled in Mr. Grabgold,
   but the man was hard and selfish. Another came who was famous
   as a statesman, but ambition had killed his spiritual life. A
   poet came, whose verses had been an inspiration to Ernest, who
   often preached to the people of the valley, but the poet was
   a sensualist. He admitted to Ernest that he had not lived the
   beautiful life that he had depicted in his poetry, that he had
   even doubted at times whether the beautiful things he had taught
   to men were true. So at last, when Ernest had been almost in
   despair about the great man who should come to the valley, he
   went out one evening to preach to the people, and as the rays
   of the setting sun lighted up his face, and also the Great
   Stone Face of the mountain, the people shouted, “The legend
   has been fulfilled; the faces are alike.” It was true. The boy
   of the valley, by keeping his eyes on the noble face on the
   mountain, had accomplished more than they all. It is the secret
   of the development of the soul. A man must keep his eyes on
   the face of Jesus Christ to-day, because there is none else so
   noble.--C. F. J. WRIGLEY.

    (196)


                       BEAUTIFUL, UTILITY OF THE

   In one of the earlier chapters of his “Les Miserables,” Victor
   Hugo tells how a good bishop answered his housekeeper once. She
   expostulated with his lordship for giving a full quarter of his
   garden to flowers, saying that it would be better and wiser to
   grow lettuce there than bouquets. “Ah, Madame Magloire,” replied
   the bishop, “the beautiful is as useful as it is beautiful.”

The ministry of beauty is one of the overflowings of the divine mind
and heart, and serves God’s purpose in common with the utilities of His
works.

    (197)


                                BEAUTY

The sense of the beautiful extends to the animal creation.

   Land-birds show fondness for decoration. A robin in Pennsylvania
   made the whole nest of flowers and white stems of everlasting,
   and it may now be seen in the Philadelphia Academy of Science.
   Other birds have been known to build entirely of flowers. Miss
   Hayward, an invalid who studied birds from her window, saw one
   pair build a nest of the blossoms of the sycamore and sprays of
   forget-me-not, and another--an English sparrow--cover its nest
   with white sweet alyssum.--OLIVE THORNE MILLER, “The
   Bird Our Brother.”

    (198)


   =Beauty and Utility=--See WORK AND ART.


                          BEAUTY, DECEIVED BY

   Bates found on the Amazon a brilliant spider that spread itself
   out as a flower, and the insects lighting upon it, seeking
   sweetness, found horror, torment, death. Such transformations
   are common in human life; things of poison and blood are
   everywhere displaying themselves in forms of innocence, in dyes
   of beauty. The perfection of mimicry is in the moral world,
   deceiving the very elect. (Text.)--W. L. WATKINSON,
   “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (199)


                         BEAUTY FROM FRAGMENTS

May not God find ways to gather up the fragments of wasted lives and
reconstitute them in His own image, as this great artist reconstructed
the window:

   In a certain old town was a great cathedral in which was a
   wondrous stained-glass window. Its fame had gone abroad over
   the land. From miles around people pilgrimaged to gaze upon
   the splendor of this masterpiece of art. One day there came a
   great storm. The violence of the tempest forced in the window,
   and it crashed to the marble floor, shattered into a hundred
   pieces. Great was the grief of the people at the catastrophe
   which had suddenly bereft the town of its proudest work of art.
   They gathered up the fragments, huddled them in a box, and
   carried them to the cellar of the church. One day there came
   along a stranger, and craved permission to see the beautiful
   window. They told him of its fate. He asked what they had done
   with the fragments. And they took him to the vault and showed
   him the broken morsels of glass. “Would you mind giving these
   to me?” said the stranger. “Take them along,” was the reply;
   “they are no longer of any use to us.” And the visitor carefully
   lifted the box and carried it away in his arms. Weeks passed
   by; then one day there came an invitation to the custodians
   of the cathedral. It was from a famous artist, noted for his
   master-skill in glass-craft. It summoned them to his study to
   inspect a stained-glass window, the work of his genius. Ushering
   them into his studio, he stood them before a great veil of
   canvas. At the touch of his hand upon a cord the canvas dropt.
   And there before their astonished gaze shone a stained-glass
   window surpassing in beauty all their eyes had ever beheld. As
   they gazed entranced upon its rich tints, wondrous pattern, and
   cunning workmanship, the artist turned and said: “This window I
   have wrought from the fragments of your shattered one, and it
   is now ready to be replaced.” Once more a great window shed its
   beauteous light into the dim aisles of the old cathedral. But
   the splendor of the new far surpassed the glory of the old, and
   the fame of its strange fashioning filled the land.--_Grace
   and Truth._

    (200)


                         BEAUTY IN COMMON LIFE

   I saw in an art gallery a group of well-drest people admiring
   a picture of some Spanish beggars. The beggars were unkempt,
   deformed, ugly, but the artist had seen beauty in the group, and
   his imagination made the scene appeal strongly to the passer-by.
   How many of those people, think you, would ever stop to look at
   a group of beggars, not in a picture, but in life? Would they
   have the imagination, apart from the artist, to feel the appeal
   of real men and women in real need and see beauty and grace of
   form beneath rags? And yet it is possible for all of us to be
   artists and see common life transfigured with a beauty and grace
   divine.--JOHN H. MELISH.

    (201)


   =Beauty, Insensitiveness to=--See INSENSITIVENESS TO BEAUTY.


                           BEAUTY PERVERTED

   One of the most beautiful sights around Ispahan, in Persia, is a
   field of poppies--those pure white flowers--stretching away for
   miles. But the poppy is often the source of a curse and misery.
   Before the poppy is ripe the “head” is scratched at sunset with
   a kind of comb in three places; and from these gashes the opium
   oozes out. Next morning it is collected before sunrise, dried
   and rolled into cakes ready for use or market. Its growers are
   enriched by the traffic, but the ground is greatly impoverished.
   And the users of opium? Why, it is death to them.

Too often, as with the poppy, beauty becomes a curse, and blessing a
bane. (Text.)

    (202)


   =Bed, Taking Up the=--See BIBLE CUSTOMS TO-DAY.


                            BEER, EFFECT OF

   I was at a hospital when an ambulance came tearing to the door,
   with a man whose leg was crusht from mid-thigh down. He was
   placed upon the operating table, restless and moaning. “Oh,
   doctor,” he said, “will it kill me?” and the good, blunt man
   of science answered, “No; not the leg, but the beer may do you
   up.” And it did. The limb was removed quickly and skilfully,
   but the clean aseptic cut had really no chance to heal, because
   the general physical degradation of beer no surgeon’s knife can
   amputate. When life and death grip one another, beer stabs life
   in the back.--JOHN G. WOOLLEY.

    (203)

   =Beggary=--See GIVING.


                           BEGINNING, RIGHT

R. H. Haweis gives this opinion about learning to play the violin,
which applies equally well to all training of youth:

   Ought young children to begin upon small-sized violins? All
   makers say “Yes”; naturally, for they supply the new violins of
   all sizes. But I emphatically say “No.” The sooner the child is
   accustomed to the right violin intervals the better; the small
   violins merely present him with a series of wrong distances,
   which he has successively to unlearn.

    (204)

   See TIMIDITY.


                     BEGINNINGS DETERMINE ENDINGS

   When the toper lies dead over his cups there is an invisible
   line that runs back from his death to the first dram. When the
   aged saint lies triumphant in his last sleep that victory is
   related to his mother’s lullaby and to his own first prayer.
   The broad estuary where the fleets of a nation float may be
   traced back to its fountain among the green hills in which a
   little child may wade or a robin rustle its feathers without
   fear. The faith that overcomes the world is the consummation of
   the faith when, in fear and trembling, the young convert first
   placed his hand in the hand of God. The first step on the stair
   is a prophecy of the landing. When we start right we have only
   to keep on in that direction and the end will be more than we
   longed for.

    (205)


   =Beginnings of Great Men=--See GREAT MEN’S BEGINNINGS.


                          BEING BEFORE DOING

   “He that would hope to write well hereafter in laudable things,”
   says Milton, “ought himself to be a true poem; that is, a
   composition and pattern of the best and most honorable things.”
   Here is a new proposition in art which suggests the lofty
   ideal of Fra Angelico, that before one can write literature,
   which is the expression of the ideal, he must first develop in
   himself the ideal man. Because Milton is human he must know
   the best in humanity; therefore he studies, giving his days to
   music, art, and literature; his nights to profound research and
   meditation. But because he knows that man is more than mortal
   he also prays, depending, as he tells us, on “devout prayer
   to that eternal Spirit who can enrich with all utterance and
   knowledge.”--WILLIAM J. LONG, “English Literature.”

    (206)


   =Belated Honors=--See DELAY.


   =Belief not Destroyed by Mysteries=--See MYSTERY IN RELIGION.


   =Belief Required=--See MYSTERY NO BAR TO BELIEF.


                                 BELLS

   We have given up announcing the miracle of transubstantiation
   or putting to flight storms and demons or managing exorcism
   by bell, book and candle, but bells as sweet as the Angelus
   still ring over our English fields and woodlands on Sunday.
   The passing-bell in a country churchyard is full of pathos and
   memory, breaking the stillness and arresting for a moment the
   busy hay-makers as they pause to listen, and remember some old
   comrade who will no more be seen in their ranks. The solemn
   bell at our midnight services, now so customary on the last
   evening in each year throughout the land, is also charged with
   hallowed thoughts; indeed, I know few things more thrilling
   than that watch-night bell, which seems as the crowd kneels
   within to beat away on its waves of sound the hopes and fears,
   and tumultuous passions of the dead year when its echoes have
   ceased those kneeling crowds feel that one more chapter in the
   book of life has been written, that ringing voice has sealed the
   troubled past and heralded in with its iron, inexorable, tho
   trembling lips the unknown future. What with the dinner-bell,
   safety yard bell, school, factory and jail bells, small cupola
   spring-bells, safety electric bells, not to forget baby’s coral
   and bells, bell-rattles, last reminiscence of the extinct fool’s
   cap and bells, and fool’s wand, with its crown of jingling
   baubles, we seem never to hear the last of bells. Bells are
   the landmarks of history as well as the daily ministers to our
   religious and secular life. The bell’s tongue is impartial and
   passionless as fate. It tolls for the king’s death “_Le roi
   est mort_.” It rings in his successor, “_Vive le roi_.”
   The cynical bells rang out as Henry VIII led wife after wife to
   the altar, the loyal bells rang out for the birth of Charles I,
   and the disloyal ones tolled again for his execution. The bells
   of Chester rang a peal for Trafalgar, alternated with a deep
   toll for the death of Nelson, and some of us can remember the
   tolling of St. Paul’s bell as the Iron Duke’s funeral passed
   up Ludgate Hill. The long green bell which announced to the
   Pisans that the wretched Ugolino, starved to death in the bottom
   dungeon, had at length ceased to breathe, still hangs in the
   famous leaning tower of Pisa.

   At the ringing of the Sicilian Vespers in the Easter of 1282,
   8,000 French were massacred in cold blood by John of Procida.
   The midnight bells of Paris gave the sign for the massacre of
   St. Bartholomew’s day, August 24, 1471, when 100,000 persons are
   said to have perished. The great towers of Christendom have all
   their eloquent bell tongues, and as we pass in imagination from
   one to the other we not only catch the mingled refrain of life
   and death as it floats upward from the fleeting generations of
   men, but we may literally from those lofty summits contemplate
   all the kingdoms of this world and the glory of them.--H. R.
   HAWEIS, _English Illustrated Magazine_.

    (207)


   =Benefaction in Kind=--See CONDITIONS SUGGEST COURSES.


                      BENEFACTION OF ANESTHETICS

   A fine sculpture in the Boston Public Garden is a marble group
   representing the Good Samaritan helping the man who had fallen
   among thieves. But more beautiful than the fine work of the
   sculptor is the inscription showing how the monument was erected
   to commemorate the earliest use of anesthetics in surgery at the
   Massachusetts General Hospital, with these texts from Scripture
   appended:

   “Neither shall there be any more pain.”

   “This also cometh forth from the Lord of hosts, which is
   wonderful in counsel, and excellent in working.”--FRANKLIN
   NOBLE, “Sermons in Illustration.”

    (208)


                          BENEFIT, COMPULSORY

The following paragraph appeared recently in _The Medical Record_
(New York):

   Because of the opposition of his parents to the operation,
   surgeons of the County Hospital of Chicago were compelled to
   obtain an order from the court directing the amputation of the
   arm of a fourteen-year-old boy recently. Gangrene following a
   fracture made the operation necessary, but neither the boy nor
   his parents would consent.

Sometimes it is legitimate to do a man good against his will.

    (209)


                              BENEVOLENCE

    He is dead whose hand is not open wide
      To help the need of a human brother;
    He doubles the length of his lifelong ride
      Who of his fortune gives to another;
        And a thousand million lives are his
        Who carries the world in his sympathies.

    (210)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Kosciusko, the famous Polish patriot and general, was very
   benevolent. Sending a messenger on a hurried errand, he bade him
   ride his own horse. But the man was long gone, and returning
   said that next time he must take another horse, for that one
   insisted on stopping at every poor hovel and with every beggar
   by the way, as if he had stopt to give alms at every wayside
   call. Even a horse can learn the way of giving.--FRANKLIN
   NOBLE, “Sermons in Illustration.”

    (211)


   =Benevolence, Christian=--See UNSELFISHNESS, POWER OF.


                          BENEVOLENCE, MODEST

   One of Baron Rothschild’s peculiarities was to conceal his
   benevolence. He gave away a great deal of money, but if the one
   who received it ever mentioned the fact so that it came back to
   the baron’s ears, he never got any more. His contributions to
   general benevolence were always anonymous or passed through the
   hands of others. His name never appeared upon any benevolent
   list.

    (212)


   =Benevolence, Practical=--See SENTIMENT, USELESS.


   =Best, Getting the=--See BUYING, GOOD.


                           BEST, MAKING THE

   Drudgery is the gray angel of success.... Look at the leaders in
   the professions, the solid men in business, the master-workmen
   who begin as poor boys and end by building a town to house their
   factory-hands; they are drudges of the single aim.... “One thing
   I do.”... Mr. Maydole, the hammer-maker of central New York, was
   an artist. “Yes,” he said, “I have made hammers for twenty-eight
   years.” “Well, then, you ought to be able to make a pretty good
   hammer by this time.” “No, sir,” was the answer. “I never made
   a pretty good hammer; I make the best hammer made in the United
   States.”--WILLIAM C. GANNETT.

    (213)


   =Best, The, is Brief Here=--See LIFE, USES OF.


   =Betrayal=--See DISPLACEMENT.


   =Betting=--See GAMBLING.


                                 BIBLE

Charles A. Dana was a great editor and thinker. This is his fine
tribute to a book that has influenced the life and destiny of more men
than any other literature:

   There is perhaps no book whose style is more suggestive and more
   instructive, from which you learn more directly that sublime
   simplicity which never exaggerates, which recounts the greatest
   event with solemnity, of course, but without sentimentality or
   affectation, none which you open with such confidence and lay
   down with such reverence: there is no book like the Bible. When
   you get into a controversy and want exactly the right answer,
   when you are looking for an expression, what is there that
   closes a dispute like a verse from the Bible? What is it that
   sets up the right principle for you, which pleads for a policy,
   for a cause, so much as the right passage of Holy Scripture?

    (214)

   See DIRECTIONS; LETTER OF GOD; WAY, DIRECTION OF; WORD THE, A
     HAMMER.


   =Bible a Book of Directions=--See DIRECTIONS.


   =Bible a Book of Life=--See HIGHER CRITICISM.


   =Bible Adaptation=--See ADAPTING THE BIBLE.


                           BIBLE A HANDBOOK

   Primarily the Bible is a handbook setting forth the way of God
   with individuals. When an inventor sells his sewing-machine, or
   car, he accompanies the mechanism with an illustrated handbook
   describing each wheel, each lever and hidden spring. Now the
   Bible is an illustrated handbook that accompanies the mechanism
   of the soul, with all its mental levers and moral springs.
   Having first stated the facts about life and duty and destiny,
   the Bible goes on to illustrate these facts. (Text.)--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (215)


                             BIBLE A LAMP

   This book is a lamp, but lamps are not to be pulled in pieces;
   lamps are to be read by. When you go down into the valley and
   the shadow, you will need a light. In that long journey down
   into the darkness of death you will travel alone. And here is a
   lamp that will light your path and bring you out of the chill
   and the damp and the dark into the morning, and the dawn shall
   be followed by day and the day shall deepen into high noon, the
   noon of God’s heaven. (Text.)--N. D. HILLIS.

    (216)


                          BIBLE AMONG HEATHEN

The eagerness of the Tahitians to have and read the Bible is indicated
by the following account:

   For years Mr. Nott had been translating the Gospel of Luke into
   Tahitian, assisted by Pomare and while the book was in press the
   natives often constrained Mr. Ellis to stop printing to explain
   to them what they read. The missionaries wished to bind the
   books before they were distributed, but the impatience of the
   people constrained them to give up waiting for proper binding
   materials. The natives, however, did not suffer these precious
   books to remain without proper protection; dogs and cats and
   goats were killed so that their skins might be prepared for
   covers, and the greatest anxiety was manifested to obtain these
   new copies of the Word of God.--PIERSON, “The Miracles
   of Missions.”

    (217)


   =Bible and Experience=--See EXPERIENCE AND BIBLE.


                        BIBLE AND HUMAN NATURE

   Rev. Jacob Chamberlain, of India, went to a native city where
   the name of Jesus had never been heard. He began to explain to
   them the first chapter of Romans, that chapter which describes
   the heart of man wandering away from God and into sin, and
   conceiving evil conceptions of God, until at last, “Tho they
   know the judgment of God--that they which do such things are
   worthy of death--not only do the same, but have pleasure in
   them that do them.” The most intelligent man in the audience, a
   Brahman, stept forward and said to Dr. Chamberlain, “Sir, that
   chapter must have been written for us Hindus. It describes us
   exactly.”

    (218)


                           BIBLE AS A CHART

Dr. W. L. Watkinson, commending the Bible as the chart of life, gives
this illustration:

   A famous Swiss guide was once interviewed. He was a man who
   had never suffered an accident. Invariably he had brought his
   parties successfully through the most ambitious undertakings.
   The man who interviewed him spoke of the failures of other
   guides. His reply to that was, “There are guides and guides.
   One takes you up and trusts to luck. He is ready for anything,
   but he does not know what is coming. He guesses where he is
   when you ask him, ‘Where is the top?’ I never do that. Before I
   start on a new track, or one I have not made before, I study it
   thoroughly. I watch it through the glass until I know it. I make
   a map of it. When I say, ‘Go,’ then I can see what is before me.
   On the mountain I must always know where I am. If you come to
   me for science, it is no good; but I must carry my map with me
   and point, ‘We are here.’ I never start without my compass, my
   thermometer, and my aneroid; so that when you come to me at any
   moment and ask, ‘Where are we?’ I can say, ‘Here! and it is so
   many feet to the top.’”

    (219)


                          BIBLE AS A COMPASS

   Every ship has a compass. No captain would dream of going to
   sea without a compass, for there are times when neither sun nor
   stars appear and steering must be done by the compass alone.
   So every man should have a compass. The Bible is the Christian
   mariner’s compass, and by it he must steer.

    (220)


   =Bible as a Mind-cure=--See MIND-HEALING.


                            BIBLE AS BREAD

   A year ago in Austria a Bible was baked in a loaf of bread. Some
   wicked men came into the house to find the Bible and burn it,
   but the good woman of the home, who was just going to bake bread
   for her family, rolled up her Bible in a big loaf and put it in
   the oven. When the intruders went away she took out the loaf,
   and the Bible was uninjured.

The Bible is bread. A good loaf to hide the Bible in is a warm heart.
The Bible is best baked in a good life. (Text.)

    (221)


                         BIBLE CUSTOMS TO-DAY

   How far away the Bible seems to us when it tells of sack-cloth
   and ashes, and about Jacob and Mordecai and Isaiah, who marked
   their desolation by these signs! In Korea sack-cloth is still
   such a mark, and with hair unbound and their persons wrapt about
   with these coarse folds of bagging they sit like Job and cry,
   “Aigo, aigo.” “And the mourners go about the streets.” From the
   writer’s house we look out on one of the main thoroughfares of
   the city; and frequently, as the sun goes down, there comes
   a procession bearing lanterns and a long line of mourners in
   sack-cloth following the dead with mournful wailings. Is there
   not a thought and a providence underlying the oneness of these
   things with all the settings of the Scripture?

    (222)

       *       *       *       *       *

   “Take up thy bed and walk,” seemed to the writer in his
   boyhood days as a most extraordinary expression. He pictured a
   four-posted bed being tugged out of a bedroom by one poor man
   only just recovered of his sickness; but when he came to Korea,
   he understood it all. The bed was just a little mattress spread
   out on the floor of the living-room, and to roll it up and put
   it away was the common act of every morning when the sleeper
   awoke. Morning light and consciousness had come into the life of
   the poor invalid, so he would roll up his sleeping-mat and walk
   off to where it was put for the day. So, in many of the common
   acts of life in Korea we were in touch with the days of our Lord
   on earth.

    (223)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Then there is the footgear or sandals. Neither China nor Japan
   so markedly reflects Scripture in this respect as Korea. Here
   are the strings tied over the instep, here the humble servant is
   called to bow down and unloose them. As in Judea, they are never
   worn indoors, but are dropt off on the entrance-mat.

    (224)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The expression, “Girt about the breasts with a golden girdle,”
   is never quite clear to a young Bible reader at home, and China
   and Japan cast no special light upon it; but in Korea there
   was the long white robe down to the feet, and round the breast
   the embroidered girdle. It remained until after the missionary
   arrived, and then in the changes of the new century the girdle
   was swept away. The white robes, too, find their corresponding
   part in Scripture, and the expression, “So as no fuller on
   earth can whiten them,” often came to mind in the old days, when
   out of the little squalid huts came forth coats that shone like
   polished marble.--The above four illustrations from JAMES S.
   GALE, “Korea in Transition.”

    (225)


                           BIBLE, EFFECT OF

   The Rev. E. W. Burt, of the Baptist mission in Shantung, says
   that three men came from a distant village in the hills begging
   the missionary to visit them. He expected to find some lawsuit
   at the bottom of their eagerness, but instead found a chapel
   built and everything ready for a splendid work in their midst.
   Three years before a colporteur of the British and Foreign Bible
   Society had sold them Bibles, and without any human instruction
   they had come to believe in Christ.

    (226)


   =Bible for Missions=--See GOSPEL, SENDING THE.


                            BIBLE FROM GOD

   At a large dinner given in New York, Mrs. Margaret Bottome, for
   a long time head of the King’s Daughters Circle, sat beside a
   German professor of science. In the course of conversation, Mrs.
   Bottome said quite naturally for her:

   “The Bible says so and so.”

   “The Bible,” remarked the professor. “You don’t believe the
   Bible!”

   “Yes, indeed, I believe it,” replied Mrs. Bottome.

   “Why, I didn’t suppose that any intelligent person to-day
   believed the Bible!”

   “Oh, yes,” Mrs. Bottome said, “I believe it all. I know the
   Author.”

    (227)


                     BIBLE FROM HEATHEN VIEWPOINTS

   Certain parts of the Bible appeal with unexpected force to
   various races, and to men in different stages of civilization,
   who read the Scriptures with other eyes than ours. We may
   illustrate this point by a few actual examples.

   When Dr. Kilgour was translating the Old Testament into Nepali
   (India), he found it an arduous, not to say a tedious, task, to
   render the long chapters of ritual regulations in Leviticus; he
   was surprized, however, to discover that his Nepalese assistant
   considered these chapters to be among the most interesting and
   important in the whole Pentateuch.

   So, again, the Chinese, who lay enormous stress on reverence for
   ancestors, are profoundly imprest by the first chapter of St.
   Matthew’s Gospel, because it begins with the genealogy of our
   Lord, which, as a colporteur wrote last year, “goes back to our
   Chinese Hsia dynasty.”

   In Egypt, Moslems are attracted by the Book of Genesis, which
   they call “the history of the creation of the world.” In the
   south of Europe the Book of Proverbs is often purchased eagerly
   by Freemasons, who look back to King Solomon as the legendary
   founder of their craft.

   In heathen countries it is by no means uncommon for the
   missionaries, who are translating the Old Testament, first to
   make a version of the Psalter and perhaps of Genesis, and then
   to translate the Book of Jonah before attempting any other of
   the prophets. They realize--what we sometimes forget--that Jonah
   is the one thoroughly missionary book in the Old Testament, and
   they find that its message comes home to their converts with
   peculiar power.--_The Lutheran._

    (228)


                              BIBLE FRUIT

The following incident is related in an issue of the _Illustrated
Missionary News_:

   One day a Chinese scholar named Ch’u paid a visit to an old
   friend, Chang, who was priest of a Buddhist temple among the
   mountains of Shansi. As he looked over the library his eye fell
   upon a book of unusual appearance lying on a dusty shelf, and
   he inquired of the priest what book it was. “Ah,” replied his
   friend, “that is a strange book I picked up on a journey--a
   foreign classic. You will not think much of it.” It was a copy
   of the Gospel of Mark, and Ch’u became interested in some things
   he read in it. He had never heard of Christ before, and now that
   life so simple and sublime laid hold on him. He came again and
   again to the temple to read that little book until he knew it
   almost by heart. But no one else could tell him more, for no
   Christian had ever penetrated to that lonely mountain. Could
   all this story about Jesus be true? If so, when did it happen?
   Where were His followers whom He told to preach His gospel?
   Could Jesus help men now? At length, after long waiting and much
   inquiry, he learned that there were some Christians in a town
   three days’ journey away, and he set off to seek them. There he
   met Pastor Hsi, a Chinese evangelist, who was able to tell him
   that Jesus Christ was alive and he could trust Him. Once again
   he visited the Buddhist temple, this time to tell his old friend
   of the grace of Christ, and Chang also became a believer. When
   some years later a Christian missionary went to this place,
   there was a community of saved men and women, and a little
   church gathered together through the agency of the message of
   that one little book.

    (229)


                          BIBLE, GRIP OF THE

   At one time I gave a Mohammedan a New Testament on condition
   that he would read it. He was a Turkish official, but he
   promised that he would do so. I saw him a year later, when he
   came to me like Nicodemus by night. I said to him, “Have you
   read the book I gave you?” He replied, “Yes, I have read it
   through four times, and it gets hold of me every time right
   here”--putting his hand upon his heart. “I believe that is the
   religion which must ultimately be accepted by the world as the
   true religion; it seems to me that it is the only religion.”
   He went out and away and he is to-day an official of the
   Turkish Government. He is a representative of a great class in
   the Mohammedan world who are beginning to have an intelligent
   knowledge of Christianity.--JAMES L. BARTON, “Student
   Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (230)


                          BIBLE, INTEREST IN

   A laboring man had come up from the country for a holiday in
   London. He seemed strong and active, tho his hair was gray; and
   standing in the Roman Gallery, he looked wonderingly at the long
   line of statues and busts of the Roman emperors. As I pointed
   out one and another to a friend with me, he stept forward and
   said, “Have they got Julius Cæsar here?” I at once told him that
   the bust stood at the end of the gallery and he walked toward
   it, but soon came back again, evidently not quite satisfied. I
   asked him if he had found it.

   “No,” he said, “I couldn’t see him.” So I took the old man back
   to where it stood, and pointed it out.

   “You are interested in these things?” I inquired.

   “Yes,” he replied, “and now I can tell folks when I go home
   that I’ve seen him. Which is the one that was alive when Jesus
   Christ was crucified?” I soon showed him Tiberius Cæsar, and
   then Augustus, telling him how God had through his means set
   the whole Roman world in motion, in order that according to
   prophecy Christ might be born in Bethlehem. And then I asked him
   if he knew the Lord Jesus Christ. With a bright, satisfied look
   lighting up his fine old face, he said, “Ah, yes! one gets to
   know summat of Him in a lifetime.”

   There were many things to be seen in London, but evidently the
   British Museum stood first and foremost in his estimation,
   because he could there see portraits of those about whom he read
   in the Bible.--ADA R. HABERSHON, “The Bible and the
   British Museum.”

    (231)


                         BIBLE, LIVING ON THE

We never fully realize the value of the Bible till it becomes our very
life. The way to deal with the Bible is not merely to study it or to
meditate upon it, but actually to live on it, as that squirrel lives on
his beech-tree.

   A preacher, one day, resting under a beech-tree, pondering on
   the divine wisdom that had created it, saw a squirrel running
   round the trunk and up the branches, and he said to himself,
   “Ah! little creature, this beech-tree is much more to you than
   it is to me, for it is your home, your living, and your all.”
   Its big branches were the main streets of his city and its
   little boughs were the lanes. Somewhere in that tree he had his
   house and the beechnuts were his daily food.

    (232)


                         BIBLE NOT OUT OF DATE

   A trader passing a converted cannibal in Africa, asked him what
   he was doing. “Oh, I am reading the Bible,” was the reply. “That
   book is out of date in my country,” said the foreigner. “If it
   had been out of date here,” said the African to the European,
   “you’d have been eaten long ago.”

    (233)


                         BIBLE, OFFENSE OF THE

   A New York City missionary, accustomed to speak in the lowest
   sections of the city, was going to hold an open-air meeting in
   Paradise Park. Before he began to preach he heard a man in the
   crowd say, “Damn the Bible, anyhow.” He mounted his barrel and
   announced, “My text to-day is ‘Damn the Bible, anyhow.’” That
   made that man and every other man eager to hear what he was
   going to say next. Then he told why the devil wanted the Bible
   damned: because it closed up all liquor stores and brothels,
   cleaned men’s lives and taught truth and salvation.

    (234)


                        BIBLE OUTWEARS ASSAULT

Dr. John Clifford puts into the following verse the vanity and failure
of all assaults on the Bible:

    Last eve I paused beside a blacksmith’s door,
      And heard the anvil sing the vesper chime;
    Then, looking in, I saw upon the floor
      Old hammers, worn with beating years of time.

    “How many anvils have you had,” said I,
      “To wear and batter all those hammers so?”
    “Just one,” he said; then, with a twinkling eye,
      “The anvil wears the hammers out, you know.”

    And so, I thought, the anvil of God’s word
      For ages skeptic blows have beat upon;
    Yet, tho the noise of falling blows was heard,
      The anvil is unharmed--the hammers gone.

    (235)


                         BIBLE, POPULARITY OF

   The Bible continues to be the most popular of books, as shown
   by the report of the American Bible Society for 1909. The total
   number of issues amounted to 2,826,831, of which 1,427,247
   came from the Bible House in New York, and 1,399,584 from the
   society’s agencies abroad, in Turkey, Syria, Siam, China,
   Japan, etc. These issues consisted of 327,636 Bibles, 545,743
   New Testaments, and 1,953,452 Scripture portions. The number of
   volumes was 673,803 in excess of the issues of a year ago, and
   590,076 in excess of any year in its history.

    (236)


                           BIBLE, REENFORCED

   Recent dispatches from Denmark tell of remarkable experiments,
   carried on in the sound between Denmark and Sweden, for
   the purpose of testing the seaworthiness of a vessel built
   according to the dimensions of Noah’s Ark, as given in Gen.
   6:15. According to the Copenhagen _Daily Dannebrog_, Naval
   Architect Vogt, who has experimented for a long time with the
   dimensions of Noah’s Ark as given in the Bible, has recently
   completed a model of that ancient craft. It measures 30 feet
   in length by 5 feet in width by 3 feet in height, the actual
   measurements of the ark of Noah being 300×50×30. The model is
   built in the shape of an old-fashioned saddle-roof, so that a
   cross-section represents an isosceles triangle. When this queer
   craft was released from the tugboat which had towed it outside
   the harbor and left to face the weather on its own account, it
   developed remarkable sea-going qualities. It drifted sideways
   with the tide, creating a belt of calm water to leeward, and the
   test proved conclusively that a vessel of this primitive make
   might be perfectly seaworthy for a long voyage. It is well known
   that the proportionate dimensions used by modern ship-builders
   are identical with those of the diluvian vessel. (Text.)

    (237)


                           BIBLE, REGARD FOR

Rev. Egerton R. Young says of the Canadian Indians among whom he worked:

   Often I have been made ashamed of the littleness of my love
   by the devotion of these Indians and their love for the
   Bible. One of our Indians came with his son from the distant
   hunting-grounds to fish on the shores of our Great Lakes,
   gathering their supplies for the winter. “My son,” said the
   father, “we leave for home to-morrow morning early; put the
   Book of Heaven in your pack.” So the young man put it in, and
   after doing so, an uncle came and said, “Nephew, lend me the
   Book of Heaven that I may read a little. I have loaned mine.”
   So the pack was opened and the Bible taken out, and the uncle
   put it on the blankets after finishing with it, instead of into
   the pack. The next morning the father and son strapped on their
   snow-shoes and walked thirty-five miles toward home, dug a hole
   in the snow at night, cooked some rabbits, had their prayers and
   lay down and slept. The next morning after prayers they pushed
   on thirty-five miles more, and made their home. That night the
   father said, “We are home now in our wigwam. Son, give me the
   Book of Heaven, that the mother and the rest may read the word
   and have prayers.” They searched for the book, but it was not in
   the pack and the son told of his uncle’s request to borrow it.
   The father was disappointed, but said little. The next morning
   he arose early, put a few cooked rabbits in his pack and started
   off. That day he walked seventy-five miles, found his precious
   book and returned the whole distance the following day, having
   walked in snow-shoes one hundred and fifty miles through the
   wild forest of the north-west to regain his copy of the Word of
   God! (Text.)

    (238)


                           BIBLE REMEMBERED

   Years ago when Bibles were scarce in Mexico, a man chanced upon
   one, and it seemed to him interesting and of good moral tone, so
   he told his son he might read it. The boy read and read and was
   delighted. He memorized large portions of it, and came to love
   it dearly. He thought it was the only book of its kind in the
   world, and when he was twelve or fourteen he carried his book as
   a proud possession to school to show it to his teacher. What was
   his consternation when the teacher threw up his hands in horror
   and cried, “Ave Maria, boy, where did you get that book? Don’t
   you know it is one of those accurst Protestant books? Give it to
   me this instant?”

   He seized the volume and carried it to the priest. The boy went
   home inconsolable and wept most of the night. The next day he
   met the priest, who told him the book was a dangerous teacher of
   false doctrines and that he had burned it. From that day the boy
   lost interest in everything. He led a careless, dissolute life,
   wandering from place to place. At length he was working in El
   Paso, Texas, and was invited by a man to attend a gathering in
   a near-by hall. As he entered, a man was standing on a platform
   at a desk reading from a book. Instantly the boy recognized
   some of the words he had memorized from the Bible and in a
   trice he was down in front of the reader, demanding, “Sir, have
   the kindness to give me back my book. That is my book that you
   are reading from. They took it away from me years ago, but it
   is mine.” As he stretched out his hand toward the preacher to
   receive his treasure he said, “I can prove to you that it is
   mine--I will tell you what it says.” And he began and repeated
   passages that he had learned years before. They gave him “his
   book,” as he truly thought it was--and it changed his life. He
   became an honored doctor in the city of Mexico and a member of
   an evangelical church.

    (239)


                            BIBLES REQUIRED

   By act of Parliament in 1579 every Scotch householder with
   $2,500 to his credit had to provide, under penalty of $50, “a
   Bible and Psalme buke in vulgare language in their houssis for
   the better instruction of thame selffis and their famelijes
   in the knowledge of God.” The condition of the times gave
   added value to such a regulation. Books were few and the
   Bible was a treat. Being compelled to buy it may have been a
   financial hardship, but having it and next to no other book
   at all made opportunity for good intellectual and spiritual
   delight.--_Northwestern Christian Advocate._

    (240)


                        BIBLE STORIES, VALUE OF

Egerton Young tells how he interested the Indians of British Columbia
through the Old Testament stories:

   Some of the Indians are huge fellows, over six feet tall,
   and they pride themselves on their stature. As they talked
   about their height, I would say, “Listen, I have a book that
   tells about a man as tall as if one of you were seated on the
   shoulders of the tallest among you.” “Oh, what a story; what
   talk is that, missionary?” “Well, come and listen.” Then I
   talked to them about Goliath, and got them interested, and
   the gospel follows. In my work among these people I found one
   reason, at least, why those stories were in the Bible. Benjamin
   would not listen, but he became interested in the stories, and
   then he listened to the gospel.--PIERSON, “Miracles of
   Missions.”

    (241)


                          BIBLE, TESTIMONY TO

   In the district of Allahabad some conversions had taken place
   among the women and girls which had greatly stirred up the
   opposition of the men. The reading circles in the zenanas had to
   be stopt and the missionaries were prohibited from visiting the
   women. One old woman, explaining the situation, said: “Our men
   say you come and take us away. It is not you who take our women
   away and make them Christians; it is your Book. There are such
   wonderful words in it; when they sink into the heart nothing can
   take them out again.”

    (242)


                        BIBLE, TRANSLATING THE

   When the armies of King Philip of Spain were seeking to crush
   liberty and life out of the people of the Netherlands, an
   evangelist named Philippe de Marnix was flung into prison by the
   Spaniards. The captive acted as did Luther in the castle of the
   Wartburg, and as did John Bunyan in Bedford jail, for he at once
   commenced the translation of the Bible into his native Dutch
   language. And just as Martin Luther’s translation of the Bible
   became the regenerating agency in Germany, so did the version
   of Marnix prove to be the corner-stone of the Dutch republic.

    (243)


   =Bible, Translation of, into Life=--See VERSION, HIS MOTHER’S.


   =Bible, Use of=--See RELIGION DIFFUSED.


                              BIBLIOMANCY

   Whitefield had to sail for Georgia, and he summoned Wesley to
   leave London and come to Bristol to take up the strange work
   begun there. In the little society in Fetter Lane that call was
   heard with dread. Some dim sense of great issues hanging upon
   the answer to it disquieted the minds of the little company.
   The Bible was consulted by lot, and repeatedly, in search of a
   text which might be accepted as a decision. But only the most
   alarming passages emerged. “Get thee up into this mountain
   and die on the mount whither thou goest up, and be gathered
   to thy people,” ran one. When one chance-selected text proved
   disquieting in this fashion the lot was cast again and yet
   again, but always with the same result. There was a quaint
   mixture of superstition and simplicity in the Bibliomancy of the
   early Methodists. If the text which presented itself did not
   please, it was rejected, and the sacred pages were interrogated
   by chance afresh, in the hope of more welcome results.--W.
   H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (244)


                                BIGNESS

The size of a gathering is not the important thing, it is the spirit
and purpose of it.

   Some years ago at a meeting of Congregationalist ministers in
   Windham County, Conn., one of their number arose and proposed
   that arrangements be made for a great convocation of all the
   ministers and churches in all that county and vicinity. He
   expatiated largely upon the importance of such an assembly, tho
   without giving any very definite evidence as to the value of the
   results that might be attained; and closed by recommending the
   project to the favorable consideration of the brotherhood.

   An old and well-known and somewhat eccentric preacher, Thomas
   Williams, arose in his place and spoke in substance as follows:

   “A man once said: ‘If all the iron in the world were made into
   one ax, what a great ax that would be! And if all the water in
   the world were poured into one pond, what a great pond that
   would be! And if all the wood in the world were made into one
   tree, what a great tree that would be! And if all the men in the
   world were made into one man, what a great man that would be!’
   And then,” drawled out the speaker, “if that great man should
   take that great ax, and fell that great tree into that great
   pond, what a great splosh there would be!”

   The old man sat down, and nothing more was heard of the “great
   splosh” or the great meeting.

    (245)


   =Bigness and Littleness Relative=--See COMPARATIVE, THE.


   =Bigness Obscured by Littleness=--See PROPORTION.


                          BIGOTRY, RELIGIOUS

   Thomas Jefferson was fiercely assailed by the Federal party,
   including nearly all of the clergy of the country, as not only
   depraved in heart and life, but as a blatant infidel, for whom
   the yawning abyss of wo, with its eternal torments, was none
   too severe a doom. Not long since a man died at Rhinebeck who,
   when an infant, was taken into the Reformed Dutch Church in that
   town to be baptized. After the clergyman had received the child
   in his arms the father gave the name to be applied as “Thomas
   Jefferson,” who was then President. “It would be blasphemy,”
   said the minister, “to call that name in the house of God; this
   child’s name is John,” and he finished the christening, the boy
   bearing the name thus given to the day of his death.--New York
   _Journal of Commerce_.

    (246)


                              BIRD NOTES

   Most of our song-birds have three notes expressive of love,
   alarm, and fellowship. The last call seems to keep them in
   touch with one another. I might perhaps add to this list the
   scream of distress which most birds utter when caught by a cat
   or a hawk--the voice of uncontrolled terror and pain which is
   nearly the same in all species--dissonant and piercing. The
   other notes and calls are characteristic, but this last is the
   simple screech of common terrified nature. (Text.)--JOHN
   BURROUGHS, _Country Life in America_.

    (247)

   See DARKNESS, INFLUENCE OF.


   =Birds=--See CRUELTY TO BIRDS.


   =Birds, Resemblances of, to Men=--See HUMAN TRAITS IN BIRDS.


                            BIRDS, VALUE OF

   The bird is not only our brother--he is far more. He is our
   benefactor, our preserver, for the simple reason that he alone
   is able to hold in check the most powerful race on earth--the
   insects. It is well known to scientific men that the insect
   tribes, unchecked, would control the earth. Innumerable,
   multiplying with a rapidity that defies figures and even
   comprehension, devouring everything that has, or has had, life,
   from the vegetable to the man, and living but to eat, these
   myriads would soon, if left to themselves, reduce our planet to
   a barren wilderness, uninhabitable by man or beast.--OLIVE
   THORNE MILLER, “The Bird Our Brother.”

    (248)


                           BIRTH CEREMONIES

   On the birth of a Parsee child a magian and a fire-priest, who
   is always an astrologer, are called in to predict the future
   life of the babe. The magian, drest in a strange robe of many
   colors, a pointed cap with jingling bells, and armed with a
   long broom made of beresma twigs (which is thought to have the
   power of putting evil spirits to flight), enters the chamber
   of the Parsee mother and babe and setting the end of his broom
   on fire dances around, exorcising the evil spirits; finally
   he flourishes his firebrand over the mother and child and in
   all the corners of the room. This done, the fire-priest draws
   a number of squares on a blackboard; in one corner of each
   square he draws a curious figure of bird, beast, fish or insect,
   each of which stands for some mental, physical, or spiritual
   characteristic, together with its appropriate star or planet.
   The magian then proceeds by means of spells and incantations
   to exercise any evil spirit that may be lurking unseen in the
   blackboard. Next the fire-priest begins to count and recount
   the stars under whose influence the child is supposed to be
   born, and then with closed eyes and solemn voice he predicts
   the future life of the babe. Next he prepares a horoscope or
   birth-paper and hands it to the father. Then, placing the babe
   on his knees, he waves over it the sacred flame, sprinkles it
   with holy water, fills its ears and nostrils with seasalt to
   keep out the evil spirits, and finally returns the screaming
   infant to its mother’s arms.--MRS. LEONOWENS, _Wide
   Awake_.

    (249)


                         BIRTH-RATE IN FRANCE

Will the French nation live to the twenty-first or twenty-second
century or will they by that time have committed suicide? asks Pierre
Leroy-Beaulieu, French deputy, professor in the Free School of
Political Science, and assistant editor of the important _Économiste
Français_ (Paris), in which he writes with patriotic passion in the
following strain, apropos of the recently published Government Census
returns:

   There is no doubt whatever that the French people are rushing
   to suicide. If they continue on this course, the French nation,
   those of French stock, will have lost a fifth of their number
   before the expiration of the present century and will absolutely
   have vanished from Europe by the end of the twenty-second
   century; that is, in two hundred years. It is now twenty years
   ago that we first stated this frightful fact. So far we have
   been a voice in the wilderness. While people are eternally
   discussing the advantages of secular education and the beauty
   of the income tax, and all the grand democratic reforms that
   are to come, amid all the fine speeches of sophistical cranks,
   the French people are gradually committing suicide. They are
   tightening the cord about the national neck; the breath of life
   is becoming feebler and now is but a gasp which must soon end in
   silence.

This writer says that marriage still exists in France, but it is no
longer an institution “intended,” according to the language of the Book
of Common Prayer, “for the procreation of children.” On this aspect of
the question he remarks:

   People still marry in France almost as frequently as in other
   countries. But this does not result in the multiplication
   of children. In 1909 marriages to the number of 307,954
   were celebrated, which amounted to 7.85 for every thousand
   inhabitants, a slightly less proportion than during the years
   immediately preceding.

But divorce with all its consequences is on the increase in France, and
we read:

   If the marriage-rate remains normal in France, divorces are
   becoming more and more common. There were 12,847 divorces in
   1909, against 11,515 in 1908; 10,938 in 1907; 10,573 in 1906,
   and 7,157 in 1900. Thus in eight years divorces have increased
   at the rate of 80 per cent. Taking into consideration the
   facility with which a divorce may be obtained from the courts,
   the number of those who ask for and gain this release is sure
   to increase rapidly. After a short time divorce will be common
   in rural districts, which so far have rebelled against it, and
   doubtless the number will grow to 20,000 or 30,000, if not more,
   per annum.


                      GROWTH OF DIVORCE IN FRANCE

               7,157
    1900+------------
        |
        |     10,573
    1906+----------------
        |
        |     10,938
    1907+------------------
        |
        |     11,515
    1908+-------------------
        |
        |     12,847
    1909+----------------------

Mr. Leroy-Beaulieu observes that divorces might lead to remarrying and
so far be in the interest of a larger population. This, however, is
not the case. The great sore of France is the dwindling birth-rate. He
tells us:

   When we come to the birth-rate of France here we find the hurt,
   the deadly hurt, from which our country suffers. The birth-rate
   in France has been declining for a century. This decline has
   become so accelerated during the past ten or fifteen years that,
   as I feel bound to repeat, we stand confronted by an impending
   suicide of the nation.

He gives the following figures to confirm his deduction:

         1835–1869
             30
    +----------------------
    |        26
    +-------------------
    |    1876–1900
    |        26
    +-------------------
    |        22
    +----------------
    |    AT PRESENT
    |        20
    +--------------

   During the first thirty years of the nineteenth century
   France recorded more than 30 births per thousand inhabitants;
   from 1835 to 1869 the birth-rate oscillated between 30 and
   26 per thousand. Leaving out the depopulating years of the
   Franco-Prussian War, 1870–71, and years succeeding, which
   suffered from this scourge, we find that from 1876 to 1900
   the birth-rate was on the decline and ranged from 26 to 22
   per thousand. In 1900 it had sunk to 21, and by the latest
   statistics it is at present only 20 per thousand inhabitants.

This writer tells us that while in 1801 the birth-rate in France
exceeded the death-rate by 5.1 per thousand inhabitants, the excess
last year was merely 0.3 per thousand. He admits that hygienic
improvements and decreasing deaths among children have lowered the
death-rate, but this can not remedy the decrease of the birth-rate:

   If ten homes do not contain among them more than fifteen
   children to take the place of twenty parents, there is no
   reduction in the death-rate which can prevent the final
   diminution of the national population.

    (250)


                            BLACK, TURNING

Character can be made black as easily, but not as easily restored, as
the skin of the lady mentioned in the extract below:

   A celebrated Parisian belle, says the _Popular Science News_,
   who had acquired the habit of whitewashing herself, so to
   speak, from the soles of her feet to the roots of her hair,
   with chemically-prepared cosmetics, one day took a medicated
   bath, and on emerging from it she was horrified to find herself
   as black as an Ethiopian. The transformation was complete;
   not a vestige of the “supreme Caucasian race” was left. Her
   physician was sent for in alarm and haste. On his arrival he
   laughed immoderately and said, “Madame, you are not ill, you
   are a chemical product. You are no longer a woman, but you are
   a ‘sulfid.’ It is not now a question of medical treatment,
   but a simple chemical reaction. I shall subject you to a bath
   of sulfuric acid diluted with water. The acid will have the
   honor of combining with you; it will take up the sulfur, the
   metal will produce a ‘sulfurate,’ and we shall find as a
   ‘precipitate’ a very pretty woman.” The good-natured physician
   went through with his reaction, and the belle was restored to
   her membership with the white race.

    (251)


   =Blasted Hopes=--See DISAPPOINTMENT.


   =Bleeding in Old Times=--See SURGERY, IMPROVEMENT IN.


                          BLESSING THE ROPES

   Every summer, at the beginning of the climbing season in the
   Swiss mountains, a solemn service is held among the guides, many
   of whom are godly men, who know they take their lives in their
   hands when they ascend the Alps. So they bring their ropes with
   them and lay them at the foot of one of the mountains. Old and
   new ropes are piled in a heap, and then they are “blessed” by
   the pastor. Prayer is offered that the old ropes may still bear
   the strain safely, and that the new ropes may prove equal to all
   the stress placed upon them. The guides are commended to the
   mercy of God that in their daily ascents they may be kept safely
   and that they may succor the travelers who trust in them. (Text.)

    (252)


                         BLESSINGS, CONQUERING

Goethe uttered a true word where he sings:

    Yes! to this thought I hold with firm persistence;
      The last result of wisdom stamps it true:
    He only earns his freedom and existence
      Who daily conquers them anew. (Text.)

    (253)


                           BLESSINGS COUNTED

    When upon life’s billows you are tempest tossed,
    When you are discouraged, thinking all is lost,
    Count your many blessings, name them one by one,
    And it will surprize you what the Lord hath done.

    Are you ever burdened with a load of care?
    Does the cross seem heavy you are called to bear?
    Count your many blessings, every doubt will fly,
    And you will be singing as the days go by.

    When you look at others with their lands and gold,
    Think that Christ has promised you His wealth untold,
    Count your many blessings, money can not buy
    Your reward in heaven, nor your home on high. (Text.)

    (254)


                         BLESSINGS FROM TRIAL

   The naturalist reminds us how the furious eagerness of the
   winged insects, which seem to be the agents of death, is
   frequently a cause of life. By an incessant persecution of the
   sick flocks, enfeebled by hot, damp airs, they insure their
   safety. Otherwise they would remain stupidly resigned, and hour
   by hour become less capable of motion until they could rise
   no more. The inexorable spur of the furious insects knows,
   however, the secrets of putting the flocks on their legs; tho
   with trembling limbs, they take to flight; the insect never
   quits them, presses them, urges them, bleeding, to the wholesome
   regions of the dry lands and the living waters where their
   afflictions cease.

On life’s lower plains, living lives of ease and indulgence, the
strength and dignity of the soul would perish; but the ills of life
disturb us, sting us, incessantly attack and pursue us, until bleeding
we find the higher planes of thought and life, until at last we
reach the sweet table-lands of which God Himself is sun and moon.
The fiery law is a chariot of fire, lifting true souls into heavenly
places.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (255)


   =Blessings Shared=--See RESPONSIBILITY.


   =Blessings Unappreciated=--See APPRECIATION, LACK OF.


   “=Blest Be the Tie that Binds=”--See CHRISTIAN UNITY.


   =Blind Children in India=--See INDIA, MEDICAL OPPORTUNITIES IN.


                             BLIND GUIDES

   I have read of a blind lamp-lighter. This poor man had mastered
   the long street in his city, and obtained the position of
   lamp-lighter. He would go up and down the street, opening the
   gas key and lighting the flame. Tired men went home from work
   in the light that he had lit. The blind man found the street
   dark; he left it a blaze of light for the tired multitudes. And
   yet, when he had lighted all the lamps, he felt his own way back
   home. Oh, pathetic scene! telling us how science looks down
   at the clods, works over iron and ore, matter and force, and
   stumbles forward in the very moment when the whole world is a
   blaze of light.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (256)


   =Blind, The, and Christ=--See CHRIST A GUIDE TO THE FATHER.


                               BLINDNESS

Edward Wilbur Mason in the following verses shows how men miss the best
things because they are spiritually blind as to the things nearest to
them.

    We seek for beauty on the height afar;
      But on the earth it glimmers all the while:
    Tis in the garden where the roses are;
      ’Tis in the glory of a mother’s smile.

    We seek for God in every distant place;
      But lo, beside us He forever stands:
    We meet Him guised as sunlight face to face;
      We touch Him when we take a brother’s hands.

    (257)

   See DARKNESS; GENIUS PERSECUTED.


                         BLINDNESS A BLESSING

Moses endured, it is said, as “seeing Him who is invisible.” And “there
are others,” thank God!

   Fanny Crosby, in the eighties, has fulfilled the vow which she
   made at eight, and has never mourned over the fact that she is
   blind. What an impressive lesson of trust and resignation is her
   declaration that her blindness has proved not a deprivation, but
   a real blessing!

   If the gift of sight were offered her now she has said that she
   would elect to remain as she is. For she says cheerfully:

   “If I had not been deprived of sight, I should never have
   received so good an education, nor have cultivated so fine a
   memory, nor have been able to do good to so many people.” (Text.)

    (258)


                         BLINDNESS AND CONTACT

   Mr. W. H. Levy, who is blind, says in his book, “Blindness and
   the Blind,” that he can tell when he is opposite an object, and
   can perceive whether it is tall or short, slender or bulky.
   He can also determine whether it be a solitary object or a
   continuous fence; whether a close fence or an open one, and
   sometimes whether a wooden fence, a stone wall, or a hedge.
   None of the five senses has anything to do with this perceptive
   power, but the impressions are made on the skin of his face,
   and by it transmitted to the brain. He therefore names this
   unrecognized sense facial perception. The presence of a fog
   interferes with facial perception, and makes the impressions
   faint and untrustworthy; but darkness is no impediment. A noise
   which distracts the attention interferes with the impressions.
   In passing along the street he can distinguish stores from
   private houses, and doors from windows, if the windows consist
   of a number of panes, and not of a single sheet of glass. A
   remarkable fact, bearing on the subject of an unrecognized sense
   is mentioned by Mr. Levy. A naturalist extracted the eyes of
   several bats and covered the empty sockets with leather. In
   this condition the bats flew about the room, avoiding the sides
   and flying out of the door without touching the door-case. In
   flying through a sewer which made a right angle, they turned
   at the proper point. They flew through threads suspended
   from the ceiling without touching them, tho they were only
   far enough apart to admit the passage of the bats’ extended
   wings.--_Youth’s Companion._

    (259)


                            BLINDNESS CURED

The blind man whom Jesus cured said, “I see men as trees walking.”
Christianity is a “convex” lens helping men to see, but it is too much
to expect a newly enlightened convert to see accurately all at once.

   Convex spectacles are made for the use of patients who have
   undergone the operation of removal of a cataract. A cataract
   is merely the crystalline lens of the eye become opaque.
   The convex lens of the spectacles supplies the place of the
   crystalline lens. But the patient is obliged to learn distances
   and dimensions after sight is thus restored, and during this
   experience he often suffers illusions.

    (260)


                           BLINDNESS, MORAL

   There came a day when, in her solemn assembly, France voted to
   cast off the recognition of Almighty God. She lifted up instead
   the Goddess of Reason, and in her delirium the multitude placed
   a daughter of pleasure in a chariot, crowned her with flowers,
   and determined to worship the body, instead of the Angel of
   Duty. But smashing the telescope does not put out the stars.
   Voting not to have any sun does not annihilate the summer. The
   microscope may show the germs of death in the reservoir, but
   breaking the microscope will not cleanse the springs.--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (261)


                            BLOOD, CRY FOR

   The Arabs have a belief that over the grave of a murdered man
   his spirit hovers in the form of a bird that cries, “Give me
   drink! Give me drink!” and only ceases to cry when the murder is
   avenged by the death of the murderer. (Text.)

    (262)


                         BLOOD, THE AVENGER OF

   A Bedouin horseman riding along a desert track, seeing the sign
   of blood on the side of the road, will instantly dismount and
   cover it with earth “to lay the _mâred_” (the avenger of
   blood). The idea is that the spirit of him who died by an act of
   violence, the victim of man’s hate, the _mâred_, calls for
   vengeance on him who has taken the life of his fellow man.--“The
   Witness of the Wilderness.”

    (263)


                           BLOOD, THE TIE OF

   Henry M. Stanley, in his work “Through the Dark Continent,”
   describes the warrior chief Mirambo, the Mars of Africa, whose
   genius for war Stanley likens to that of Frederick the Great
   and Napoleon Bonaparte. He was a formidable adversary, and
   Stanley was very anxious to convert him from a foe into an ally.
   By skilful management he did accomplish this, and to make the
   alliance an unbreakable one, the covenant of brotherhood was
   sealed by an interchange of blood between the African hero and
   the American hero, an incision being made in the right leg of
   each for this purpose. The same blood now flowed in the veins
   of both Stanley and Mirambo, and they thereafter vied with
   each other in proofs of their unselfish fidelity. Abraham and
   Abimelech made such a covenant and the literal translation is
   “they cut a covenant.” Jacob and Laban also “cut a covenant.”
   An Oriental could as soon commit suicide as slay a covenant
   brother, for it would be shedding his own blood.

    (264)


   =Blotting Out Errors=--See EFFACEMENT OF SINS.


   =Blows, Repeated=--See REPETITION, FORCE OF.


   =Bluffer, The Human=--See PRETENSE.


                              BLUNDER, A

This incident is told by Dr. R. F. Horton in the _Christian Endeavor
World_:

   I had been addressing a large midday congregation in Leeds,
   and a deep seriousness pervaded the atmosphere. The closing
   hymn appointed began, “Sin-sick and Sorrow-laden”; and by
   some inconceivable oddity of my own mind I gave it out, quite
   deliberately and distinctly, “Seasick and Sorrow-laden.” I
   perceived what I had done in a second. I literally trembled, for
   it was impossible to recall the slip without calling attention
   to it. I feared that there would be an awful titter, or even an
   explosion of laughter. Wonderful to say, it was as if no one but
   myself noticed the blunder, and I was awed into gravity, not
   only by the occasion, but by my fear of what might happen.

    (265)


   =Body, Frailty of=--See HOUSE, THE MORTAL.


                          BODY, MASTERING THE

   I think of the delicacy and perfection of much of R. L.
   Stevenson’s work--just the kind of writing which a man might
   plead could not be done except in moments of inspiration and in
   favorable conditions. Then I remember how that delicate style
   was attained by years of severe drill, and when the instrument
   had been perfected, it was used with conscientious diligence in
   face of every conceivable hindrance. When, after hemorrhage, his
   right hand is in a sling, he writes some of his “Child’s Garden
   of Verses” with his left hand; when the hemorrhage has been so
   bad that he may not even speak, he dictates a novel in the deaf
   and dumb alphabet. He writes to George Meredith: “For fourteen
   years I have not had a day’s real health. I have written in
   bed, written in hemorrhages, written in sickness, written torn
   by coughing, written when my head swam for weakness; and for
   so long, it seems to me, I have won my wager and recovered my
   glove. The battle goes on--ill or well is a trifle, so as it
   goes. I was made for contest, and the powers have so willed
   that my battle-field should be this dingy, inglorious one of
   the bed and the physic-bottle.” No wonder that he could say: “I
   frankly believe (thanks to my dire industry) I have done more
   with smaller gifts than almost any man of letters in the world.”
   And yet this man declared that he labored only for art, and
   that the end of art was to give pleasure! If such a motive can
   command such devotion, what is not possible for us who serve
   the Savior, for us whose end is the salvation of men and the
   redemption of the world!--W. W. B. EMERY, _Christian
   World Pulpit_.

    (266)


   =Body, The, as a House=--See HOUSE OF THE SOUL.


                            BODY, THE HUMAN

   The human body is a marvelous machine with a storage of power.
   It is estimated that if all the beats of the heart in a single
   day could be concentrated in one huge throb of vital power, it
   would be sufficient to throw a ton of iron 120 feet into the
   air. An electrical engineer has affirmed that this expended
   heart-energy is equal to a two-candle power of an incandescent
   electrical lamp; or, if converted into cold light, this amount
   of power would represent forty candles. If a man had some such
   organ as a firefly has he could surround himself with light
   enough to live by without artificial lighting.

    (267)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A scientific writer, speaking of the human body in its
   marvelous mechanism, calls it an epitome of all mechanics, of
   all hydraulics, of all machinery. It has all the bars, levers,
   pulleys, wheels, axles and buffers known to science. All the
   more than three hundred movements included in modern mechanics
   are simply modifications and variations of those found in the
   human body--adaptations of processes and first principles
   employed in the human organism.

In a true sense, man, in body, is a law unto himself, and possesses the
potential means of fulfilling all the high purposes of physical life.

    (268)


   =Boldness=--See FAITH.


   =Boldness in Asking=--See ASKING, BOLDNESS IN.


   =Bondage=--See GREED.


                            BONDAGE TO SIN

   The strength of some of the spiders which build their webs in
   trees and other places in Central America is astounding. One of
   them had in captivity, not long ago, a wild canary.

   The ends of the wings, the tail and feet of the bird were bound
   together by some sticky substance, to which were attached the
   threads of the spider, which was slowly but surely drawing
   up the bird by an ingenious arrangement. The bird hung head
   downward, and was so securely bound with little threads that it
   could not struggle and would soon have been a prey to its great
   ugly captor if it had not been rescued.

   All around us are men being bound by the arch enemy of souls,
   that he may devour them. At first, he tempts them with little
   sins that charm and fascinate, and as they yield, he binds
   them with threads of filmy texture. Temptations multiply. The
   reward of sin is greater sin. As they become more submissive, he
   binds them so fast that finally they are unable to make further
   resistance. (Text.)

    (269)


                         BOOK, INFLUENCE OF A

   I can still remember plainly the circumstances under which I
   finished it. (“Uncle Tom’s Cabin.”) I had got well into the
   second volume. It was Thursday. Sunday was looming up before
   me, and at the rate at which I was going there would not be
   time to finish it before Sunday, and I could never preach till
   I had finished it. So I set myself to it and determined to
   finish it at once. I had got a considerable way into the second
   volume, and I recommended my wife to go to bed. I didn’t want
   anybody down there. I soon began to cry. Then I went and shut
   all the doors, for I did not want any one to see me. Then I sat
   down to it and finished it that night, for I knew that only in
   that way should I be able to preach on Sunday.--HENRY WARD
   BEECHER.

    (270)


                              BOOK-STUDY

   It was always with a sigh of relief that Macaulay turned aside
   from public duties to the companionship of books, and he said
   that he could covet no higher joy than to be shut up in the
   seclusion of a great library, and never pass a moment without
   a book in his hand. And this confession declares the man. To
   acquire information was the real passion of his life. He was
   not interested in the study of human nature, and had no love
   or aptitude for meditation. A man with genial interest in his
   fellows, and in life as a whole, would not have walked the
   streets of London with a book in his hand; and a man with any
   faculty of meditative thought would scarcely have employed
   a long starlit night on the Irish Sea in a recitation of
   Milton.--W. J. DAWSON, “The Makers of English Prose.”

    (271)

   See SURPRIZES IN BOOKS.


   =Book, The Most Popular=--See BIBLE, POPULARITY OF.


                            BOOKS AND WORTH

   Browning would never write for a magazine. He wrote: “I can not
   bring myself to write for periodicals. If I publish a book, and
   people choose to buy it, that proves they want to read my work.
   But to have them to turn over the pages of a magazine and find
   me--that is to be an uninvited guest.”

    (272)


   =Books, Influence of=--See REFORMATION.


   =Books Less Important than Things=--See THINGS NOT BOOKS.


                           BOOKS, POISON IN

   A gentleman in India went into his library and took down a book
   from the shelves. As he did so he felt a slight pain in his
   finger like the prick of a pin. He thought that a pin had been
   stuck by some careless person in the cover of the book. But soon
   his finger began to swell, then his arm, and then his whole
   body, and in a few days he died. It was not a pin among the
   books, but a small and deadly serpent.

There are many books that contain moral poison more deadly to character
than this serpent. (Text.)

    (273)


                          BOOKS, THE SIZE OF

   We are capable of believing, not only that we love books which
   we do not love, but that we have read books which we have
   not read. A lifelong intimacy with their titles, a partial
   acquaintance with modern criticism, a lively recollection of
   many familiar quotations--these things come in time to be
   mistaken for a knowledge of the books themselves. Perhaps in
   youth it was our ambitious purpose to storm certain bulwarks of
   literature; but we were deterred by their unpardonable length.
   It is a melancholy truth, which may as well be acknowledged
   at the start, that many of the books best worth reading are
   very, very long, and that they can not, without mortal hurt,
   be shortened. Nothing less than a shipwreck on a desert island
   in company with Froissart’s “Chronicles” would give us leisure
   to peruse this glorious narrative, and it is useless to hope
   for such a happy combination of chances. We might, indeed, be
   wrecked--that is always a possibility--but the volume saved
   dripping from the deep would be “Soldiers of Fortune,” or
   “Mrs. Wiggs of the Cabbage Patch.”--AGNES REPPLIER,
   “Compromises.”

    (274)


                              BOORISHNESS

   Boorishness is a product of selfishness far more than a product
   of ignorance; or at least a product of that ignorance which is
   in itself a product of selfishness. I was once at a wedding
   breakfast in a rural community in the West. The groom ate in
   silence the food that was set before him, dispatched his meal
   before the rest of us were more than half through, pushed
   back his plate, wiped his mouth with the back of his hand,
   and turning to his bride, said, “Well, Sally, you may as well
   get used to my way at the beginning, and I always leave the
   table when I have got through with my meal!” With these words
   he went out to pick his teeth on the door-steps, leaving his
   bride with a flushed face and a pained heart, the object of our
   commiseration. The man was a boor, you say. True! What made him
   a boor? The fact that he selfishly thought of his own comfort.
   It never entered his head to inquire whether his conduct would
   be agreeable or painful to his bride.--LYMAN ABBOTT,
   _The Chautauquan_.

    (275)


   =Borrowed Trouble=--See WAIT AND SEE.


                       BORROWING HABIT ARRESTED

   A wag has declared that there is one borrower set down in every
   neighborhood; that she either “leavens the whole lump” (being of
   the fomenting class) or speedily moves away. But he is mistaken;
   sometimes the borrower gets converted. Here is the way one woman
   managed it:

   “Ma wants to know if you will loan her a cup of sugar?” asks
   Mrs. B.’s little girl.

   “Why, certainly! But be sure to tell her not to return it,” was
   the cheerful response of Mrs. Neighbor.

   The next day the child reappeared with the sugar, but she was
   promptly sent home with it. Mrs. N. was “glad to let her have
   it, and it was too small a matter to be repaid.”

   This caused Mrs. Borrower to gasp and to wait a while before
   despatching the child for a cup of lard. This was given also,
   and when no return was allowed Mrs. B. realized the situation
   and was too proud to ask for further loans. She resented
   her neighbor’s attitude, but her mouth was shut, especially
   as Mrs. N. continued as friendly as ever when they met. The
   result was that she was simply forced to exercise a little more
   head-work thereafter in her household affairs, ordering supplies
   sufficiently in advance of her needs, and soon she had broken
   herself of the borrowing habit.--LEE MCCRAE, _Zion’s
   Advocate_.

    (276)


                       BOTTOM, BEGINNING AT THE

   It was in the pursuit of a mission that Theodore Roosevelt,
   Jr., went to Thompsonville. He might have found a more showy
   position, for he had name and influence. He might have found
   plenty of things to do that would at the start have brought him
   more money. For that matter, he had enough of his own so that he
   need not bother with work; and had he been like some young men,
   he would never have been seen in overalls or any other uniform
   of the toiler. But he went to the carpet mill, and he did what
   he was told. He began at the bottom. He has worked hard. And
   now we may understand what he did it for. Announcement is made
   that he is to go West as manager of one of the Hartford Carpet
   Company’s Western houses. It is for a purpose that he has been
   learning the business in all its details. He could not manage
   without that knowledge.

          *       *       *       *       *

   It is an old lesson, but never was there an instance better
   showing it than does this of the son of the former President. If
   he could afford to begin at the bottom, others can. If he must,
   others must. If with his brains and education he needed to do
   that, nearly any young man does. If his prospective position is
   the reward of that sort of sacrifice, it is a sacrifice that any
   young man can afford to make.--New Haven _Register_.

    (277)


   =Boy, A Chance for the=--See CHANCE FOR THE BOY.


   =Boy, a Dutiful=--See PRESERVATION.


                             BOY AND KING

   Mark Twain tells a story of how a bootblack saved a king. The
   king was sick; his trouble defied the skill of all his doctors,
   and it seemed as if he must die. The little bootblack knew a
   peculiar but a sure remedy for the disease; but how to get the
   king to take a prescription from a bootblack was a problem. He
   might have gone to the palace doors and pleaded till he was
   hoarse without any one listening. So he told his remedy to the
   ash-boy, who was older than himself, and the ash-boy told it to
   the butcher, and the butcher told it to his wife, and she told
   it to some one else, and so on it went, a little higher each
   time, until it reached the king’s doctors. The king would have
   nothing more to do with them, so they told it to the favorite
   page, and since the king was very fond of the page he tried the
   remedy just to please him. The king was cured by the bootblack’s
   remedy.--JAMES M. STIFLER, “The Fighting Saint.”

    (278)


   =Boy, A Noble=--See LOVE, FILIAL.


   =Boy, His Own=--See FATHERHOOD.


                     BOYS ADJUSTING THEIR TROUBLES

   When Edward VII was a boy of ten, he was with his mother, Queen
   Victoria, at Balmoral Castle in the Highlands of Scotland. At
   that time the Queen was quite a skilful painter in water-colors
   and spent many days by the waterfalls and in the glens making
   pictures.

   One day she was sitting at her easel on a sandy beach of the
   river beneath a waterfall. Young Edward was playing around her.
   The little Prince suddenly caught sight of a Highland lad in
   kilts. The lad was making a sand castle and adorning it with
   sprigs of heather and “chucky-stones.”

   The Prince advanced to him with royal hauteur and asked for whom
   the sand castle was being built.

   “For bonnie Prince Charlie,” was the playful reply of the
   boy, who stood with his hands on his hips to see the effect
   of a thistle on the top story. The lad had no idea that his
   interlocutor was any different from any other boy.

   The young Prince, however, determined to make it clear that
   he--and not Prince Charlie--was to be King some day. He kicked
   over the sand castle.

   The Highland boy glared at him and said:

   “Ye’ll no dae that again!”

   It was a challenge. The lad rebuilt his sand castle very
   deliberately. The Prince waited until the thistle was stuck on
   the top story, then kicked it over as deliberately as it had
   been built.

   “Ye’ll no dae that a third time!” challenged the little Scot,
   beginning to rebuild with even more deliberation.

   The Queen had been noticing the affair. She set aside her
   brush and palette, but said nothing; only watched with a firm,
   studious expression on her maternal face.

   A third time Prince Edward kicked over the Highland lad’s sand
   castle. No sooner was it done than its kilted builder closed his
   fists and lowered his head. In another moment the two boys were
   hammering one another.

   The Queen sat there and never interfered by word or act.
   The little Prince presently returned, weeping, bruised, and
   bloody-nosed, while the rebel Gael stood apart, himself
   considerably frayed, waiting to see if any further service were
   needed in the training of royal children.

   To the little Prince’s plea for speedy justice and vengeance,
   the motherly Queen merely replied, as she wiped the blood from
   the future King’s nose with a pocket handkerchief:

   “It served you right!”--New York _Times_.

    (279)


                            BOYS’ CHAMPION

   Pages, messenger boys, newsboys and bootblacks have a champion
   in a member of Congress who never lets pass an opportunity to
   help them along. If a messenger boy should happen to drop into
   the office of Representative William J. Cary, of Milwaukee, in
   the House office building, he would get as much consideration as
   a member of the United States Senate.

   Mr. Cary is the friend of the little chaps because he knows from
   experience what it means to get out and hustle for a living when
   some of your pals are off playing baseball in the back lots, and
   whenever he gets a chance to give a youngster a boost he boosts
   hard.

   Mr. Cary was left an orphan when he was thirteen years old,
   together with five younger brothers and sisters who were placed
   in an orphan asylum.

   In chasing around Milwaukee as a messenger boy he became
   acquainted with the political leaders of the city and by the
   time he was old enough to vote he was a full-fledged politician.
   Machine methods do not appeal to him and he would rather mix up
   in a fight with the Cannon organization than to take a cruise to
   Europe.--Boston _Journal_.

    (280)


   =Boys and Saloon=--See CHANCE FOR THE BOY.


   =Boy’s Courage, A=--See LOYALTY.


   =Boys, Influences Upon=--See YOUTHFUL TENDENCIES.


                       BOY’S CLUB, VALUE OF THE

   I was talking once with an East Side boy, one of the keenest
   and quickest fellows I have ever met. He told me the story of
   his early years. There was no good reason why he should have
   been a newsboy; his father was a fairly prosperous tailor; but
   he loved the adventure of it, and used to play hookey from
   school and from home to sell papers. Union Square was his
   center, and from there down to Washington Square he ranged.
   He was the quickest and the most fearless of the newsboys in
   the neighborhood, and soon became a leader among them. His
   brightness and wit won him entrance into most of the saloons
   and restaurants thereabouts, when the other boys were excluded;
   and in many of these the waiters or the barkeeper would save
   the dregs of drinks for him. He stole when he could, just for
   the excitement of the thing; and with great glee he told me how
   he once had picked the pocket of Mr. Robert Graham, the general
   secretary of the Church Temperance Society, as that gentleman
   stood talking at the window of the society’s coffee-van in the
   square. At the time he told me this, he and I both belonged to
   a company of the Church Temperance Society which claimed Mr.
   Graham as its adjutant commander. His story was not all of such
   proud recollections, however. For after a pause he said, rather
   slowly, “The boys I used to go with around here, my gang, have
   all gone to the devil, and mighty fast.” “Well, John,” I asked,
   “how is it that you didn’t go to the devil, too, with them?”
   “Well, I’ll tell you. I belonged to a boy’s club down near my
   house. It wasn’t much of a club; we used to steal and have rough
   house all we pleased. But I was there every night.” And then he
   added, with a momentary seriousness I shall not soon forget:
   “Mr. Bartlett, if you want to save the boys, keep them off the
   streets at night.” It was expert testimony; he knew whereof he
   spoke. And what he said puts in a nutshell the whole philosophy
   of the boys’ club, secular or spiritual, on its negative, but
   a most important, side. If the club simply keeps the boys off
   the streets at night, it does much more than enough to pay for
   all it costs.--GEORGE G. BARTLETT, “Proceedings of the
   Religious Education Association,” 1904.

    (281)


   =Boys Contrasted=--See EARLY HABITS TELL.


                       BOYS’ MISSIONARY EFFORTS

   Eight boys in a Sunday-school class in one of our churches,
   following the suggestion of their teacher, decided to send
   Christmas remembrances to eight boys in a mission church in
   the far Northwest. They set aside five cents each week for
   seven weeks and purchased knives of much greater value than
   thirty-five cents each, through the kindness of the merchant
   who was informed of their purpose. Each boy wrote a personal
   letter to the boy who was to receive his gift. The eight
   knives went on their way before Christmas to the care of the
   minister of the mission, who wisely required his eight boys to
   write personal letters acknowledging their gifts and telling
   something about themselves, before they received the knives. So
   eight choir-boys, close up to the Canada line in the Northwest,
   received these Christmas gifts. The letters received here were
   said to have interfered for a Sunday or two with the regular
   lessons. With their accounts of hunting rabbits, etc., they
   made Newark boys feel that all the advantages of life are not
   found in New Jersey. The plan here described was suggested
   incidentally by the work of the Church Periodical Club, which
   has done a great deal to brighten the lives of our missionaries
   and their people.--The Newark (N. J.) _Churchman_.

    (282)


   =Boy’s Religion=--See EARLY RELIGION.


   =Boy’s Trust in Father=--See CONFIDENCE.


                          BOYCOTT, ORIGIN OF

   Boycotting did originate in America, but it was started long
   before the slavery troubles became annoying. The boycott
   originated with Thomas Jefferson. It will be remembered that
   by the embargo we boycotted every species of English goods;
   we neither bought of that country nor sold to her. The ships
   of New England were suffered to lie rotting at the wharves,
   and American foreign trade was at a complete standstill. The
   Hartford Convention was the result of that boycott, and the
   lukewarmness of the East in the war of 1812 may be traced to it.
   It was not a highly successful boycott, but it occupied a pretty
   big place in history.--Detroit _Evening Journal_.

    (283)


   =Brag=--See PRETENSE.


                             BRAIN IN MAN

All, if not most animals, have brains. Man, in common with his kingdom,
has a brain; but because of its greater weight and perfection,
scientists see in it an illustration of man’s vast superiority over all
below him.

   Note has to be taken among the mammalia themselves, from the
   marsupials to man, of the presence or absence of one testing
   character, and that the chief--the perfect brain. This is found
   in one creature, occupying, as it were, the inner ring and core
   of the concentric circles of vitality, and in one alone. In
   the lowest variety of man it is present--present in the negro
   or the bushman as in the civilized European; and absent in all
   below man--absent in the ape or the elephant as truly as in the
   kangaroo or the duckmole. To all men the pleno-cerebral type
   is common: to man, as such, it is peculiar. And till we hear
   of some simian tribe which speculates on its own origin, or
   discusses its own place in the scale of being, we shall be safe
   in opposing the human brain, with its sign in language, culture,
   capacity of progress, as a barrier to Mr. Darwin’s scheme.

    (284)


   =Bravery=--See LOYALTY.


                           BRAVERY OF WOMEN

Henry Savage Landor, one of the many passengers on the _Baltic_,
added chapter after chapter to the good story of the bravery and
coolness displayed by men and women when the _Republic_ was
struck, and throughout the hours of waiting and of rescue:

   In all my travels through the countries of the two hemispheres,
   never have I seen displayed a spirit of womanhood that could
   be better in such an extreme than was that of the women of
   the _Republic_. When we of the _Baltic_ met them,
   it was as they were being brought to our vessel in a tossing
   sea in small boats after nearly a score of hours spent on the
   crowded Italian emigrant vessel, to which they had been taken
   from another wreck. Yet not only was there no whimpering, but
   they actually came aboard with smiling faces. They forgot that
   all their traveling possessions were doomed, forgot all the
   ordeal they had encountered, and showed themselves happy and
   contented because they thought, most of them, that in the face
   of disaster, all that the hands of willing men could do to help
   them had been done.

    (285)


                            BREVITY OF LIFE

   The May-fly, of which there are several varieties, lives at the
   longest but three or four days; some varieties but a few hours
   of one day. Yet they are delicately organized, and possess all
   the functions of insect lives.

Man’s few years of mortal existence may seem as brief compared with
eternity.

    (286)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The life of a perfect butterfly or moth is short. A few days
   after emergence from the chrysalis case, the female deposits
   her eggs on the leaves or stems of the plant that is to sustain
   the larvæ. Her work is now accomplished, and the few days more
   allowed her are spent in frolicking among the flowers, and
   sucking the sweet juices they provide. They soon show symptoms
   of a fast approaching end. Their colors begin to fade, and the
   beauty-making scales of the wings gradually disappear through
   friction against the petals of hundreds of flowers visited and
   the merry dances with scores and scores of playful companions.
   At last, one bright afternoon, while the sun is still high in
   the heavens, a butterfly, more weary than usual, with heavy and
   laborious flight, seeks a place of rest for the approaching
   night. Here, on a waving stalk, it is soon lulled to sleep by a
   gentle breeze.

   Next morning, a few hours before noon, the blazing sun calls
   it out for its usual frolics. But its body now seems too heavy
   to be supported by the feeble and ragged wings, and, after one
   or two weak attempts at play, it settles down in its final
   resting-place. On the following morning a dead butterfly is
   seen, still clinging by its claws to a swinging stem.--W.
   FURNEAUX, “Butterflies and Moths.”

    (287)

    Life is too short for any vain regretting;
      Let dead delight bury its dead, I say,
    And let us go upon our way forgetting
      The joys and sorrows of each yesterday.
    Between the swift sun’s rising and its setting
    We have no time for useless tears or fretting.
            Life is too short.

    Life is too short for any bitter feeling;
      Time is the best avenger, if we wait.
    The years speed by, and on their wings bear healing--
      We have no room for anything like hate.
    This solemn truth the low mounds seem revealing
    That thick and fast about our feet are stealing.
            Life is too short.

    Life is too short for aught but high endeavor--
      Too short for spite, but long enough for love.
    And love lives on forever and forever,
      It links the worlds that circle on above;
    ’Tis God’s first law, the universe’s lever,
    In His vast realm the radiant souls sigh never.
            Life is too short. (Text.)

    (288)


   =Bride-racing=--See MARRIAGE-RACING.


                              BRIGHT SIDE

    There’s a bad side, ’tis the sad side--
              Never mind it!
    There’s a bright side, ’tis the right side--
              Try to find it!
    Pessimism’s but a screen.
    Thrust the light and you between--
    But the sun shines bright, I ween,
              Just behind it!

    --JEAN DWIGHT FRANKLIN, _The Circle_.

    (289)


   =Broad-mindedness in Civics=--See CIVICS.


                              BROTHERHOOD

   Two men saw a piece of jewelry on the sidewalk, they reached for
   it simultaneously, struck their heads violently; each arose to
   censure the other, when they found they were brothers and had
   not seen each other for a dozen years. It must not be forgotten
   that all competitions and rivalries to-day are between
   brothers, and some day the vast brotherhood will be permanently
   organized.--CHARLES E. LOCKE.

    (290)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A man preaching to the inmates of a prison made the remark that
   the only difference between himself and them was owing to the
   grace of God. Afterward one of the prisoners approached him and
   asked: “Did you mean what you said about sympathizing with us,
   and that only the help of God made you differ from us?” Being
   answered in the affirmative, the prisoner said: “I am here for
   life, but I can stay here more contentedly now that I know I
   have a brother out in the world.”

How we might lighten the burden of others if we had and showed more
feeling for them, if we followed more closely in the footsteps of our
blessed Lord.--ST. CLAIR HESTER.

    (291)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The story is told, as an instance of Oriental humor, of a little
   Chinese girl who was carrying her brother on her back. “Is he
   heavy?” she was asked. “No,” she replied, “he is my brother.”

For some reason this seems funny to the Chinese; but it is better than
humorous, it is sweet and winning. Love makes all burdens light. When
one is carrying his brother, he feels little weight. Here is a good
text for social workers. If they consider that they are working for
mere aliens and strangers, their toil may seem irksome; but if the idea
of brotherhood once enters in, the task becomes light. I am carrying my
weaker brother, therefore I feel no weight.

    (292)

   See WEAKNESS, CONSIDERATION FOR.


                           BUILDERS, ANCIENT

   The old Egyptians were better builders than those of the present
   day. There are blocks of stone in the pyramids which weigh three
   or four times as much as the obelisk on the London embankment.
   There is one stone the weight of which is estimated at eight
   hundred and eighty tons. There are stones thirty feet in length
   which fit so closely together that a penknife may be run over
   the surface without discovering the break between them. They
   are not laid with mortar, either. We have no machinery so
   perfect that it will make two surfaces thirty feet in length
   which will meet together as these stones in the pyramids meet.
   It is supposed that they were rubbed backward and forward upon
   each other until the surfaces were assimilated, making them the
   world’s wonders in mechanical skill.--The London _Budget_.

    (293)

   See DAILY CHARACTER WORK.


   =Building Character=--See IMPERFECTIONS CORRECTED.


   =Building, Cheap=--See FIRE, COST OF.


                       BUILDING THE SOUL’S CITY

Prof. Felix Adler is the author of this poem:

    Have you heard the golden city
      Mentioned in the legends old?
    Everlasting light shines o’er it,
      Wondrous tales of it are told.
    Only righteous men and women
      Dwell within its gleaming wall;
    Wrong is banished from its borders,
      Justice reigns supreme o’er all.

    We are builders of that city;
      All our joys and all our groans
    Help to rear its shining ramparts,
      All our lives are building-stones.
    But a few brief years we labor,
      Soon our earthly day is o’er,
    Other builders take our places,
      And our place knows us no more.

    But the work which we have builded,
      Oft with bleeding hands and tears,
    And in error and in anguish,
      Will not perish with the years.
    It will last, and shine transfigured
      In the final reign of Right;
    It will merge into the splendors
      Of the City of the Light. (Text.)

    (294)


   =Burdens=--See BROTHERHOOD.


                    BURDENS, BEARING ONE ANOTHER’S

   On a railway train running on a branch road from a great city to
   the suburb, a little incident in complete contrast was noted by
   eyes quick to see what happened on the road. A woman, evidently
   a foreigner and very poor, was encumbered by a baby in her
   arms, while two older children tugged at her skirt. In addition
   she had several nondescript bundles. When the brakeman announced
   her station she was bewildered and greatly impeded in her
   efforts to leave the car. She was not quite sure of the place,
   and she could not easily manage the babies and the bundles.

   A tall young fellow, conspicuously well drest, had been sitting
   near, apparently lost in a book which he was studying. He
   tossed the book aside, seized the heavy bundles and gave a
   hand to one little brown-faced child, assisted the whole party
   out of the car, first ascertaining that they were at the right
   point of their journey, lifted his hat to the mother as if
   she had been his own, and resumed his place and book as if he
   had done nothing uncommon. This incident was chronicled in
   the memory of one whom it made happier for a whole long day.
   (Text.)--_Herald and Presbyter._

    (295)


   =Burdens for Others=--See HARDSHIP VICARIOUSLY BORNE.


   =Burglar Punished=--See UNLOADING THE USELESS.


                        BURIAL, A NOVEL PLAN OF

Gen. M. C. Meigs, U.S.A., discusses the burial of the dead as follows
in _Building_:

   I see that the question of disposing of the dead in towers of
   masonry, or by cementation, is being discust. It is not new.
   Asiatic conquerors have built the living, after capture of
   their cities, into towers of masonry, using their bodies as
   blocks, and generally the adobe mortars of the desert plains for
   cementing them together. One of them built a pyramid or tower
   containing thousands of heads.

   The city of New York inters in its Potter’s Field about four
   thousand bodies annually. Europe rents a grave site for a term
   of years--a short term--and then disinters the bones and packs
   them in a catacomb or a vault. Would not New York save money and
   treat its dead with greater respect if it embedded each body in
   a mass of Hudson River cement and sand (Beton Coignet)? I find
   that one-half a cubic yard of Beton Coignet will completely
   enclose the body of a man of six feet stature, weighing two
   hundred pounds. The average human being would require even less
   than thirteen cubic feet. At ruling prices such a sarcophagus
   would cost only two or three dollars. The name and date, a
   perpetual record and memorial of the dead, could be inscribed
   with letter-punches or stamps on the head or foot of the block
   or sarcophagus. Ranged alongside each other in contact, and in
   two rows, _i.e._, two blocks deep, these would build on any
   suitable plan a fourteen-foot wall, massive enough and strong
   enough to be carried to the height of one hundred and fifty feet.

   Thus would be erected, at the rate of nearly two thousand
   cubic yards per year, a great temple of silence, a grand and
   everlasting monument to those who pass away. The designs for
   such a monument seem worthy of the study of our best architects.
   It might be a pyramid, a cone, a tower, or a temple, or a long
   gallery like those of the Italian city of Bologna, the most
   beautiful cemetery in the world.

   Many years ago the London _Architect_ published the
   proposal of an architect to erect by slow degrees and in
   successive courses a solid pyramid in which, in cells, the dead
   of London would be enclosed. But this made no provision for
   memorial inscriptions or visible records. The fourteen-foot wall
   does this.--_Building._

    (296)


   =Burial too Expensive=--See POVERTY.


   =Buried Cities=--See EARTH INCREASING.


                     BUSINESS A TEST OF CHARACTER

   Beethoven, when he had completed one of his grand musical
   compositions, was accustomed to test it on an old harpsichord,
   lest a more perfect instrument might flatter it or hide its
   defects.

The old harpsichord on which to test our religious life, our new song,
is the market-place. A man, like muddy water, may be very peaceful
when he is quietly “settled”--not shaken up by temptation. That proves
nothing about his religious life. But if a man’s patience and peace and
principles can stand the test of business, his religion is genuine.

    (297)


   =Business Absorption=--See ENGROSSMENT IN BUSINESS.


   =Business Acumen=--See OVERSIGHT.


   =Business Brevity=--See SUCCESS INSPIRES CONFIDENCE.


                           BUSINESS CHANCES

   In 1840 Worcester had thirty leading manufacturers of
   whom twenty-eight began as journeymen and two as sons of
   manufacturers. Of seventy-five manufacturers in 1850, six
   only were sons of manufacturers, only six of the one hundred
   and seven in 1860, and of one hundred and seventy-six
   manufacturers in 1878, only fifteen. The chance that the head
   of a manufacturing business will be reached by the son of an
   owner in Worcester for forty years has been pretty steadily
   about one in ten of the total chances of going to the head. As
   the sons of manufacturers in Worcester in 1840 could not have
   been, taking thirty manufacturers as the number, one per cent
   of the population, the chances of success for them was above
   the average, but not so far above as to discourage young men
   without this good fortune. The chance that property will stay
   two generations in one family seems also to be about one in ten
   in Worcester. Of the thirty manufacturers in 1840, fourteen of
   whom died or retired with property, only three in 1888 had left
   sons with money; of the seventy-five in 1850, the sons of only
   six survive now; and of one hundred and seven in 1860, eight
   only were represented by sons in the business world of Worcester
   twenty-eight years later. The business field at any given year
   is apt to look to young men as if all the leading places were
   filled by men whose sons were certain to enjoy the advantages of
   wealth and likely to take the places of their fathers. But there
   is not over one chance in ten that this will take place, and
   scarcely this that wealth will be left by those who inherit it.
   While of those in business on any date, one-fourth drop out in
   five years, one-half in ten, and two-thirds in fifteen years.

   Nine places out of ten thirty years hence are therefore open to
   those who to-day have nothing.--Philadelphia _Press_.

    (298)


                           BUSINESS CHEATING

   Your prize-fighter has some honor in him yet; and so have the
   men in the ring round him: they will judge him to lose the match
   by foul hitting. But your prize-merchant gains his match by
   foul selling, and no one cries out against that. You drive a
   gambler out of the gambling-room who loads dice, but you leave a
   tradesman in flourishing business who loads scales! For observe,
   all dishonest dealing is loading scales. What difference does
   it make whether I get short weight, adulterate substance, or
   dishonest fabric?--unless that flaw in the substance or fabric
   is the worse evil of the two. Give me short measure of food, and
   I only lose by you; but give me adulterate food and I die by
   you.--JOHN RUSKIN.

    (299)


                        BUSINESS MEN IN CHURCH

   Dr. Crafts asked a prominent business man of Chicago, who has
   been active in the very heart of its commercial life for sixteen
   years, to make a careful list of its one hundred richest men,
   and then tell him how many of them were church-members. His
   report was, “Seventy church-members, twenty-four attend church,
   and I think are not members; three I consider dissipated, and
   three are Jews, who are good citizens.”

    (300)


                         BUSINESS, RELIGION IN

Altho Mrs. J. Alden Gaylord conducts a bond-investment business in
Wall Street, she firmly believes that financial success can be gained
in that “frenzied” business center by godly spiritual guidance. Mrs.
Gaylord has achieved the distinction of taking over the management of
the affairs of her late husband and running them on original lines.
Says the New York _Herald_:

   Seated in a spacious office, this plucky little woman spends
   her time discussing with her clients the flotation of security
   issues and the financing of railway lines. Religious mottoes are
   posted on the walls, and a Testament and prayer-books occupy a
   conspicuous place on the desk.

   “Yes, every morning after I arrive in this city,” said Mrs.
   Gaylord, “I spend a few minutes in Old Trinity to pray. That was
   a custom of my husband’s, who was one of the most godly men that
   lived. Before we begin business here we have a prayer-meeting
   in the office. I have a good many young men here to whom I am
   teaching the business. I conduct the services, assisted by my
   partner, Mr. Fletcher.

   “We carry on our work here according to the teaching of the
   Scriptures. Even if I make only one-quarter of one per cent,
   that is enough. And business is coming in from every part of the
   country. It is perfectly wonderful. Only yesterday two loans
   came in--one for $3,000,000 and another for $2,000,000.

   “The deals will be closed to-morrow. I believe the Lord has
   educated me in all this. I know He is helping me, and the money
   I make will all go to the Lord. I only want to provide for my
   grandchildren. All the rest will go to charity and missions.”
   (Text.)

    (301)


                             BUYING, GOOD

   Not very long ago a lawyer accompanied his wife to a Harlem
   market in New York, and while she made some purchases, he
   watched a woman beside him select meats for an unusually large
   order. So extensive were her purchases that he grew interested.
   Later he found himself forgetting quantity in admiration for the
   judgment and care she was exercising in her buying. After she
   left, his curiosity got the better of him. “Do you mind telling
   me,” said he to the clerk, “who that woman was? I think I never
   saw one who bought so well.”

   “Not at all,” was the answer. “She’s Mrs. X, and she keeps a
   boarding-house on Y Street,” naming a number almost opposite the
   man’s home. “She personally inspects every piece of meat she
   serves on her table, and I tell you her boarders get the best.
   You can’t fool her.”

   “I’ve found a place to take our meals in the next domestic
   crisis,” was the thought that flashed into the man’s mind. This
   kind of boarding-house keeper was not the sort he had known in
   the days of his bachelor wanderings.--_The Evening Post._

    (302)


   =By-products=--See UTILIZING SEED.


   =By-products of Seaweed=--See UTILIZING SEAWEED.




                                   C


   =Calf Intelligence=--See DIRECTION, SENSE OF.


                           CALL, THE, OF GOD

   In the summer of 1871, Rev. Robert W. McAll and his wife,
   visiting Paris at the close of the war with Germany, and led by
   a deep desire to reach workingmen with the gospel, were giving
   away tracts in the hotels and on the public streets, when a
   workingman said: “If any one will come among us and teach us
   not a gospel of priestcraft and superstition, but of truth and
   liberty, many of us are ready to hear.”

   Mr. McAll returned home, but above the murmur of the waves and
   the hum of busy life he heard that voice, “If any one will come
   and teach us ... we are ready to hear.” He said to himself,
   “Is this God’s call? Shall I go?” Friends said, “No!” But a
   voice within said, “Yes.” And he left his English parish and
   went back, and in a district worse to work in than St. Giles in
   London he began to tell the old story of Jesus. Soon the little
   place was crowded, and a larger room became a necessity; and
   sixteen years later that one gospel hall has become 112, in
   which, in one year, have been held 14,000 religious meetings,
   with a million hearers, and 4,000 services for children,
   with 200,000 attendants.--PIERSON, “The Miracles of
   Missions.”

    (303)


                       CALL TO BETTER LIFE, THE

   When summer is ending the wild bird in arctic zones responds to
   the call of the tropic winds and perfumes and plumes his flight
   for southern feeding-grounds. So the soul of man is drawn and
   responds to subtle and haunting attractions in the realm of
   holiness and heaven.

    (304)


   =Call to Duty=--See RESPONDING TO THE CALL.


                   CALLS AND CONVEYANCES IN THE EAST

   A source of offense (in the East) are calls formal in character.
   One can ruin his social standing by going to make this call in a
   wrong style of conveyance. A friend of mine had bought a Chinese
   sedan-chair with shorter handles than those of an ordinary
   sedan. It was loaned to a millionaire from New York to bring him
   up from the river, and it caused the greatest excitement that
   the city had ever known. People were laughing for years over it.
   Why? Because those shorter handles made of that sedan a spirit
   chair, in which the ghost is carried at funeral processions.
   It was just as appropriate as if Dr. Anderson, of the First
   Presbyterian Church up here, should receive a visiting clergyman
   in a hearse down at the station and bring him uptown in it. It
   is safe to say that the sight of his guest looking out through
   the glass sides would not be forgotten. You have reached your
   place, and you desire to make a good impression; but you are in
   such haste that you leap down from your cart, or gharry. Well,
   if a lady should do this in China or India, she might just as
   well in America if she desired to make a good impression upon
   a new friend, approach this friend’s house skipping, or on the
   run; or a gentleman might just as appropriately vault a fence to
   get over into the yard, instead of entering by the gate where
   he was going to make a call.--H. P. BEACH, “Student
   Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (305)


   =Calmness=--See CONFIDENCE.


                         CALMNESS IN A CRISIS

Speaking of that “anxious moment” in the decisive battle of Königgrätz
before the arrival of the Crown Prince in the rear of the Austrians,
Bismarck, according to Mr. Schurz’s autobiography in _McClure’s
Magazine_, related the following incident showing von Moltke’s
coolness:

   It was an anxious moment, a moment on the decision of which the
   fate of the empire depended. Squadrons of cavalry, all mixt up,
   hussars, dragoons, uhlans, were streaming by the spot where the
   King, Moltke, and myself stood, and altho we had calculated that
   the Crown Prince might long have appeared behind the Austrian
   rear, no sign of the Crown Prince! Things began to look ominous.
   I confess I felt not a little nervous. I looked at Moltke, who
   sat quietly on his horse and did not seem to be disturbed by
   what was going on around us. I thought I would test whether he
   was really as calm as he appeared. I rode up to him and asked
   him whether I might offer him a cigar, since I noticed he was
   not smoking. He replied that he would be glad if I had one to
   spare. I presented to him my open case in which there were only
   two cigars, one a very good Havana, and the other of rather poor
   quality. Moltke looked at them and even handled them with great
   attention, in order to ascertain their relative value, and then
   with slow deliberation chose the Havana. “Very good,” he said
   composedly. This assured me very much. I thought, if Moltke can
   bestow so much time and attention upon the choice between two
   cigars, things can not be very bad.

    (306)


   =Calmness of Pupils=--See DISCIPLINE AMONG CHILDREN.


                         CALVARY, ANTICIPATING

   Overbeck, the celebrated German painter, in one of his immortal
   canvases, represents the child Jesus at play in Joseph’s
   workshop. He is fashioning sticks and blocks into the shape of a
   cross, as if anticipating and rehearsing in his tender years the
   tragedy of Calvary. Child as he is, even in his play the serious
   work of his life looms up before Him.

    (307)


   =Canadian Resources=--See MONEY POWER IN CANADA.


   =Candles, Illustrations from=--See ILLUSTRATIONS FROM CANDLES.


                                 CANT

   A professor, addressing an academic audience, warned his hearers
   against cant. At the close, questions were invited and one of
   the students asked the professor, “What is cant?” “There is a
   kind of religion,” was the reply, “which is natural to an old
   woman, and there is another which is natural to a young man;
   but if the young man professes to have the religion of the old
   woman, that is cant.”

    (308)


                               CAPACITY

   You do not preach to the acorn that it is its duty to become a
   large tree; you do not preach to the art-pupil that it is his
   duty to become a Holbein. You plant your acorn in favorable
   soil, where it can have light and air, and be sheltered from
   the wind, you remove the superfluous branches, you train the
   strength into the leading shoots. The acorn will then become
   as fine a tree as it has vital force to become. The difference
   between men and other things is only in the largeness and
   variety of man’s capacities.--JAMES ANTHONY FROUDE.

    (309)


                       CAPACITY LIMITING SUPPLY

   You can limit the working of almighty power, and can determine
   the rate at which it shall work on you. God fills the water-pots
   to the brim, but not beyond the brim; and if, like the woman
   in the Old Testament story, we stop bringing vessels, the oil
   will stop flowing. It is an awful thing to think that we have
   the power, as it were, to turn a stopcock, and so increase or
   diminish, or cut off altogether, the supply of God’s mercy and
   Christ’s healing and cleansing love in our hearts. You will
   get as much of God as you want, and no more. The measure of
   your desire is the measure of your capacity, and the measure
   of your capacity is the measure of God’s gift.--ALEXANDER
   MCLAREN.

    (310)

   See RECEPTIVENESS.


                          CAPACITY, ORIGINAL

   During the trial in court of a case involving the originality of
   a picture, an eminent counsel put this question to Gainsborough:
   “I observe you lay great stress on the phrase, ‘the painter’s
   eye’; what do you mean by that?” “The painter’s eye,” replied
   the artist in a smart repartee, “is to him what the lawyer’s
   tongue is to you.”

    (311)


   =Capacity, Restricting=--See ROUTINE.


   =Captain and Crew Stedfast=--See LOYALTY.


                          CAPTAIN, CHRIST OUR

   Among the old war pictures I remember one of a captain of
   artillery bringing his battery into action. His whole soul
   was in the effort to rally his men and guns on the line. You
   could hear the thunderous roll of the wheels, crushing over all
   unevenness and hindrance, the frantic straining of the horses,
   the fearless, intense resolution of the men, and above all, the
   captain waving his sword, shouting his commands--but shot dead
   just as the guns wheel into line. Our Captain died rallying us,
   but He rose again, and He still has His dying enthusiasm of
   love for each one of us.--FRANKLIN NOBLE, “Sermons in
   Illustration.”

    (312)


                             CAPTAIN, OUR

   Every ship has a captain. Some captains are good, some bad.
   Years ago, I went by steamer from Quebec through the lower St.
   Lawrence and around the Dominion coast. Our captain was under
   the influence of liquor the whole way, and you can easily
   imagine that I was glad to get ashore safely. One of the ocean
   steamship lines once dismissed a captain who, tho thoroughly
   capable when he was sober, was given to drink. Another ocean
   line took him up, hoping that he had reformed. Unfortunately,
   this was not the case. Bringing his steamer across the Atlantic,
   and being under the influence of drink, he ran her too far north
   and on a winter’s night rushed his steamer on to the rocks. That
   night 532 people found a watery grave. Surely that is not the
   kind of captain with whom we would ever care to sail. On the
   other hand, there was in my earlier days a captain of the Cunard
   Steamship Company--Captain Cook by name--careful, capable,
   endlessly vigilant. The passengers felt safe while he was on the
   bridge.

Some one has charge of us in all our life’s voyage, and either we
are under the command of Jesus Christ as Captain of our salvation,
or under the command of Satan, the captain of ruin and death and
despair.--A. F. SCHAUFFLER in _The Christian Herald_.

    (313)


                          CAPTAIN, THE DIVINE

   A vessel lies at the wharf. Her timbers are sound, her masts are
   stanch, her canvas is bent. The tide coaxes her seaward; the
   winds plead with her to move. The ship itself strains at her
   moorings to be leaping over the ocean. But the vessel must wait,
   wait for the skipper’s will. Not best timbers or fullest tide
   can carry that ship to the distant port until the master reveals
   his mind to the vessel. The earnest expectation of the vessel
   waiteth for the revealing of the captain.

   So, here is the world; the master-builder has fitted it with
   all things needful for its consummation; it is ready for its
   wonder purpose; but it must wait; something is needed for the
   accomplishment of that end. The earnest expectation of the
   creation waiteth for the revealing of the sons of God.--T.
   C. MCCLELLAND.

    (314)


   =Card-playing=--See AMUSEMENTS.


                       CARE IN PERFORMING DUTIES

   The postal-clerk must know the various mail routes as familiarly
   as he does the faces of his best friends. His car, with its tier
   over tier of pigeon-holes, and its ranks of yawning mail-bags,
   is to him no labyrinth of mysteries. His eyes are in his
   fingers, and the skilful musician’s touch is not more accurate
   than the aim of this wizard of the mail-car. The department
   rules are exacting, and if an occasional error results from
   the hurried manner in which the mail is thrown, in course of
   distribution, it is sure to be detected by the next clerk into
   whose hands the stray piece of mail falls, and a report of it
   is at once sent to the division superintendent to be charged
   against the clerk making the error. During a given year the
   number of letters and other pieces of mail matter distributed
   was 5,329,521,475. The number of errors made in handling this
   vast quantity of matter was only 1,260,443. The number of pieces
   handled for each error committed were 4,228, thus making the
   percentage of correct distribution 99.98. All employees are
   required to attest their skill by frequent examinations, and
   for this purpose much of the leisure time of each is devoted to
   studying the mail schemes of the various States attaching to
   the division in which he is employed--JOHN M. BISHOP,
   _Magazine of American History_.

    (315)


                           CARE OF GOD, THE

   There are winter times with blight and cold and fruitlessness
   and storm for us all; times when we do not see that the
   wonder-workings of the divine care are on us. But they are on
   us, definitely, “all the days.” The sun was not only bringing
   the earth around all winter to a time when spring should break
   forth; but the coal you burned to expel the winter’s cold that
   same sun had caused to grow in ancient ages in its original
   vegetation; the wood that enclosed the comforts of your home
   and shut out the driving storm, that sun had caused to grow in
   recent years; day by day all the winter through the sun sent
   light to cheer your rooms while snows lay deep and winds were
   wild; and day by day the sun purified the air and sterilized
   germs of disease, and so made it possible for you to baffle
   sickness and nurse your loved one back to health. The sun
   was working for your good all the time. Even so our Lord is
   ever working in us and in our lives to will and to do of his
   good pleasure.--Monday Club, “Sermons on the International
   Sunday-school Lessons for 1904.”

    (316)


                               CARE-FREE

   The Baroness Burdette-Coutts inherited from her grandfather, of
   the Coutts Bank, a fortune of about $20,000,000. She managed it
   ably, but devoted it to great works of charity during her long
   and busy life. Not long before her death she said:

   “I seem to be living in a transitional age. Every one is in such
   a hurry nowadays, and I don’t ever remember being in a hurry.
   The weather never depresses me. I don’t mind noise and rather
   enjoy the rush of the motor-busses past Holly Lodge. I don’t
   myself know what nerves are, and yet I’ve had to send Tip, my
   fox-terrier, to a restcure.” (Text.)

    (317)


   =Carefulness=--See HEADWORK.


   =Careless Work=--See ANYHOW, THE LAND OF.


                             CARELESSNESS

   Down in the fire-room of a big steamer that was lying at the
   wharf in New York, a young man was told to do a certain piece of
   work in connection with the pumps. There were two pumps close
   together in the room--one for feeding the boiler and the other
   to use in case the ship should take fire. This latter one was
   capable of throwing a volume of water as large as a man’s body.
   The young man, who had been employed on the ship for three
   years, and who, when he concentrated his attention on it, knew
   all that was necessary concerning the work in hand, went to the
   wrong pump and removed the cap from the fire-pump. In a moment
   he discovered his error, but the force of the water was so great
   that he could not replace the cap on the pump. Without a word
   he ran to the deck, left the steamer, and took the cars for his
   home in another State. Before the accident was discovered the
   water had filled the hold of the vessel, and in spite of every
   effort the vessel sank, and many thousands of dollars of damage
   was done.--LOUIS ALBERT BANKS.

    (318)

   See IGNORANCE.


                         CARELESSNESS, COST OF

   The city of Butte, Montana, is built over a mine which has been
   on fire for seventeen years, not blazing out, but smoldering
   quietly, every effort being made to keep out the air, without
   which it can not spread very rapidly.

   As to the origin of this fire the story is that a miner named
   Henshaw left his candle burning on a pine beam in the mine when
   he finished work one day seventeen years ago.

   “Goin’ to leave the glim there, Bill?” his partner queried.

   “Sure; what’s the difference?”

   “Oh, nothin’, only there’ll be nobody round here for quite a
   while and I was just thinkin’ that if a fire started it might
   spread.”

   “Well, we’ll take chances; let’s go!” was the glum response.

   They went out, but the fire didn’t. A set of timbers caught and
   the flames spread quickly.

   Since that time thousands of men have been engaged in fighting
   this fire without complete success, for it still burns, and a
   fortune has been expended in the conflict.

What a price to pay for a foolish act! All acts of carelessness are not
followed by such serious consequences, but there is always an element
of risk in doing the wrong thing.

In how many lives has the fire of sin been kindled by some deed of
folly in early life, and it still smolders in the soul, cursing the
man’s whole being.--_Onward._

    (319)


                          CAREERS CONTRASTED

   In the year 1877 two young men stood up with the rest of their
   class at Bowdoin University to receive diplomas. One was called
   Bob, the other was called Charlie. They were Maine boys, both of
   them, and of about the same age. Within the last few weeks those
   two boys, now grown into grizzled men in the early fifties, have
   been conspicuous in the news of the day.

   One of them, Bob, went in for fame, and after devoting the best
   years of his life to wrestling with arctic storms, throwing dice
   with death, enduring the very limits of privation and hardship,
   more than once glad to chew tanned leather or bite into rancid
   blubber, he emerged the other day with a story of discovery
   which thrilled the whole world, and will send his name, Robert
   E. Peary, sounding down the ages to the end of time.

   The other boy, Charlie, went in for fortune. He had already
   developed the knack of the money-maker, and he did not tie up
   his talent in a napkin. He sold candy. He sold ice. He sold
   lumber. He acquired banks and trust companies and juggled stocks
   and bonds until he amassed a fortune of twenty millions. Then
   something happened. On the day after New-year’s day of this
   year (1910), his money gone, his reputation destroyed, his
   liberty lost, he took the 10:43 train on the Southern Limited,
   escorted by a United States marshal and two deputies, on the
   way to the Federal prison at Atlanta, Ga., to which he had been
   sentenced for a term of fifteen years. Every legal device to
   save him had been tried, and had failed, and Charles Wyman Morse
   has now become convict Number 2814--that is all.--_Current
   Literature._

    (320)


                          CARGOES THAT WRECK

   Every ship has a cargo, or if no cargo it is seeking for cargo.
   Some cargoes are safe and some dangerous. In olden time they
   used to load grain in bulk, which was dangerous, for if the
   grain shifted in a storm it was apt to throw the ship on her
   beam ends. Cotton is a dangerous cargo, and many steamship lines
   advertise, “These ships carry no cotton.” Some years ago, an
   evil-minded man tried to ship an infernal machine on one of the
   steamers of a transatlantic line. His intention was that the
   clockwork in the machine should go off while the ship was in
   mid-ocean, and blow her to pieces. Fortunately, the clockwork
   went off while the infernal machine was on the dock. It blew off
   the stern of the steamer and killed thirteen men. Surely that
   would have been a dangerous cargo to carry.

Just so every man carries a cargo. By this I mean a cargo of opinions,
passions, appetites, and these are sure to wreck any young man who
carries them.--A. F. SCHAUFFLER, _The Christian Herald_.

    (321)


                                 CASTE

Dr. Pauline Root, of India, gives this example of the tenacity of the
Hindus to their rules of caste:

   The Brahman custom which prescribes for every man and woman
   the ceremonial bath every day also prescribes that during
   any illness the bath shall be omitted. A woman who is ill is
   banished to a little room and left to take care of herself
   unless a hired person is sent to be her nurse. I had under my
   care a young girl of high caste who was ill with an illness
   which had already carried off the mother and two sisters. The
   father was ready to make almost any concessions to me if I would
   only come and save his daughter’s life. I insisted that she be
   brought out into one of the main rooms of the home, and that she
   be given a cot to sleep upon. When she grew better she wanted me
   with her most of the time to sit beside her and hold her hand. I
   really thought she was succumbing before love. Finally, I told
   her that she was convalescent enough to have her ceremonial
   bath. The next morning her father met me with a munificent gift.
   I saw the girl arrayed in her beautiful dresses, but a great
   distance had been put between us, and when I held out my hand
   she refused it, saying, “Please don’t touch me; I have taken my
   bath.”

    (322)


   =Catalepsy=--See PATHOLOGICAL CONDITION.


   =Catching Souls=--See FISHERS OF MEN.


                       CATHOLIC FOREIGN MISSIONS

   Probably few people outside the Catholic Church know what that
   body is doing for the evangelization of heathen lands. And if
   we are to believe the Catholic leaders and writers, their own
   people have shared to some degree this lack of information and
   interest, for the Catholic missionaries have had to struggle
   on with little support from home compared with the generous
   gifts the Protestant missionaries receive. A report has just
   been issued by Monsignor Freri, general director of the Society
   for the Propagation of the Faith, that is full of information
   on this subject. It is summarized in the New York _Evening
   Sun_ and _Post_ and many Catholic journals. Its figures
   afford some interesting comparisons. While an unmarried
   Protestant missionary receives about $600, the income of the
   Catholic missionary, who receives no stated salary, is less than
   $111. While the Northern Methodists of America alone last year
   subscribed over $2,000,000 in missionary funds, and all American
   Protestants more than $11,000,000, Catholics the world over
   contributed in all but $1,342,292.27.

   Monsignor Freri’s report shows the actual receipts for 1909
   to be $61,755.02 in excess of those of the preceding year.
   He directs special attention to the zeal of the Catholics of
   France, who, in spite of the extraordinary burdens imposed
   upon them by the confiscation of religious property and the
   separation of Church and State, contributed $630,688.51, almost
   half of the total.

   The United States and its insular possessions hold the second
   place with the gift of $220,637.78. This is an increase of
   $27,583.38 over 1908. Germany gave $140,530.92; Belgium,
   $71,529.40; the Argentine Republic, $47,448.97; Italy,
   $46,898.74; Spain, $39,080.42; Mexico, $24,149.60; Switzerland,
   $18,532.74; Chile, $16,403.93, and the British Isles donated a
   trifle above $25,000, of which Ireland gave $15,478.92.

   It is estimated that the number of Catholic missionaries in the
   foreign field, exclusive of converted natives who have taken up
   the work, is 54,000, of whom 10,000 are priests, 4,000 teaching
   brothers, and 45,000 nuns. In addition to their share of the
   general fund, the missionaries receive alms and contributions
   from various sources. Yet, to quote an address delivered by
   Monsignor Freri before the Catholic Missionary Congress:

   “Including all these sources of income, and after consultation
   with many heads of missions, I think I am far within the truth
   when I say that the total contribution for missions, from all
   sources, is less than $6,000,000 a year. If we reckon 10,000
   priests, 4,000 brothers, and 40,000 nuns, this would give an
   average of less than $111 per capita. With this they must
   support themselves, build churches, maintain schools, hospitals,
   asylums, colleges, pay the transportation of missionaries, etc.”

   One of the chief missionary bands is that of the “White
   Fathers,” or Algerian missionaries, whose missions in Uganda
   Mr. Roosevelt visited in his African travels. According to the
   report, the total number of baptisms within the jurisdiction of
   this one organization during the year beginning July, 1908, was
   10,000.

    (323)


                         CATHOLICITY, A KING’S

   His (Edward VII) catholicity, the object of both praise and
   censure, was proverbial. An instance of this was given in a
   letter written by Archbishop Magee, in December, 1873. Speaking
   of a week-end visit to Sandringham, where Edward, then Prince
   of Wales, attended his services, he said: “Just returned from
   church, where I preached for twenty-six minutes (Romans, 8:28).
   The church is a very small country one, close to the grounds.
   The house, as I saw it by daylight, is a handsome country house
   of red stone with white facings, standing well and looking
   quietly comfortable and suitable. I find the company pleasant
   and civil, but we are a curious mixture. Two Jews, Sir A.
   Rothschild and his daughter; a Roman Catholic, Col. Higgins;
   an Italian duchess, who is an English woman, and her daughter
   brought up as a Roman Catholic and now turning Protestant; a set
   of young lords, and a bishop. The Jewess came to church; so did
   the half-Protestant lady. Dizzy (Disraeli) did the same, and
   was profuse in his praises of my sermon.”--New York _Evening
   Post_.

    (324)


                         CAUSALITY IN CHILDREN

   A few illustrations will suffice to make clear the instinct of
   causality in children. I draw first of all upon notes taken on
   the religious development of a boy between the age of three and
   six years. At the end of the third year, while visiting Niagara
   Falls with his parents, this boy showed his first interest
   in the cause of things. While watching the water of the falls
   from Prospect Park, he said: “Mama, who pours the water over
   Niagara Falls?” We may imagine similar questions being asked
   by the American Indian ages previously, and answered in terms
   of “Gitchie Manitou, the Mighty.” From this beginning, the boy
   during the next three years seemed to be trying to make himself
   clear upon the question of where things come from originally,
   and who keeps the world going. “Who makes the birds?” “Who made
   the very first bird?” “Who fixt their wings so they can fly?”
   “Who takes care of the birds and rabbits in the winter when snow
   is on the ground?” “Who makes the grass grow?” “Who makes the
   trees?” “Who makes them shed their leaves and then get them back
   again?” “Who makes it thunder?” “Who put the moon in the sky?”
   “Who made the whole world?” “Who made people?” “Who made me?”
   “Does God make everything?” “Who made God?” “Was God already
   made?” “Is God everywhere?” Such were the questions asked again
   and again, with all sorts of comments in reply to the answers
   that were given him. The question of what is the origin of
   things was seldom or never asked. It was always who; and when
   the personal cause he was seeking was named “God” in connection
   with numerous objects, he finally generalized by asking if God
   makes everything.--GEORGE E. DAWSON, “The Child and His
   Religion.”

    (325)


   =Causative Sense Instructive=--See AUTOMATIC EXPERIENCE.


                             CAUSES CURED

   A bitter fountain comes rushing down the mountain side, and
   drinking thereof, the people of the city are poisoned. Along
   comes a man who says: “I will build a lime factory just above
   the city, and pour a stream of lime-water into the bitter
   fountain.” Jesus’ method was simpler. Go higher up, into the
   mountain of God, and strike the rock, that sweet waters may gush
   forth, to flow through the land, carrying health and happiness
   to all that stand upon the banks of this river of water of
   life. Jesus reformed institutions by reforming human nature.
   He was a fundamental thinker. He dealt with causes.--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (326)


   =Caution in Revealing Truth=--See TRUTH FATAL.


                       CEMETERY, THE EARTH AS A

   Again and again this old poetic fancy of the earth as one great
   cemetery buried several times deep with dead men, women and
   children, has been refuted by figures. But great is the error
   and will prevail, unless the truth be well and steadily upheld.
   The population of the earth is now about 1,500,000,000. Suppose
   the human race to have existed for 6,000 years and you have
   sixty centuries. In each century you may count three generations
   of mankind, or one hundred and eighty generations in all, each
   being a generation of 1,500,000,000. Now, lay out a cemetery
   for one generation. It will be a huge estimate to give to every
   man, woman, and child a grave five feet by two, or ten square.
   You want for your graveyard, then, 15,000,000,000 square feet of
   ground. A square mile contains something less than 28,000,000
   square feet. You want, then, a graveyard fifty-five miles long
   by ten wide for your whole generation. Now multiply this by one
   hundred and eighty and you have your burial-ground for 6,000
   years of mankind. That is, a strip of land, 1,800 miles long
   by 55 miles wide will be ample. In other words, a cemetery
   containing 100,000 square miles would be sufficient for the
   entire human race to lie side by side. The estimate which I
   have given you of continuous population is obviously enormously
   large. The estimate of the size of each grave is very large. A
   strictly correct estimate would reduce the size of the required
   cemetery more than one-half. But enormous as it is, you could
   lay out your burial-ground for all men who have lived on earth,
   so that they could lie side by side in Arizona or in California,
   or you could lay it out in Texas large enough to accommodate
   the race of 6,000 years past, and also the race for 6,000 years
   yet to come, all sleeping in the soil of that one State of this
   Union. But some one says the race of man has been on the earth
   100,000 years. That is a pure imagination and there is not, so
   far as I know, a fact on which to rest it. But suppose it is
   true, and suppose the population always what it is now, you
   have provided for 6,000 years of it. You want nearly seventeen
   times as large a cemetery for the generations of a thousand
   centuries. That is, you want 1,700,000 square miles in it. Lay
   it out whenever you please, 1,700 miles long by 1,000 miles
   wide. It is but part of the United States. And so enormously
   large have been the rough estimates thus far used, it is safe
   to say that if the human race has been in existence 100,000
   years, a separate grave could be provided for every individual
   of the race within a part of the United States east of the
   Mississippi River.--W. C. PRIME, New York _Journal of
   Commerce_.

    (327)


   =Censure, Misplaced=--See REFLECTION, IMPERFECT.


   =Census-taking, Primitive=--See COLLECTIVE LABOR.


                            CENTER OF LIFE

   Some men have a Ptolemaic notion of life; their little earth is
   the center around which all things move. If I have been of that
   sort, I will remember that the age has outgrown that. It is time
   to reconstruct one’s life on the Copernican theory, admitting
   that ours is only a little earth in the great universe, and
   finding our true solar center in the great moral gravitation of
   the divine love.--FRANKLIN NOBLE, D.D., “Sermons in
   Illustration.”

    (328)


   =Ceremonial Purging=--See PREJUDICE, RELIGIOUS.


                       CEREMONY, USELESSNESS OF

   At Teschen, which town Stephen Schultz, missionary to the Jews,
   visited several times, he entered the store of a Jewish merchant
   to buy some articles. He conversed with one of the Jewish clerks
   on the necessity of an atonement for sin, when the Jew asserted
   that every man can atone for his own sins. Schultz made him
   agree to the statement that we are all become altogether as an
   unclean thing, and then asked him:

   “How, then, can we pay our debts to God or atone for our sins?”
   “We must pray, fast, give alms, etc., for altho we dare not
   now offer any sacrifices, yet if we read over the institution
   and rites of sacrifices, it will be accepted.” Schultz,
   without paying any attention to this absurd statement at this
   time, asked: “How much do I owe for these articles I bought?”
   “Fifty-seven cents.” “Please write it down upon the counter,
   lest I forget it.” The Jew did so, and Schultz read ten times:
   “Fifty-seven cents,” and then walked toward the door as if he
   would depart. The clerk called him back, saying: “You have not
   paid me.” “What! Have not yet paid? Have I not read over ten
   times just what you wrote?” “Yes, but that will not pay your
   debt.” “And will you then deal so treacherously with God, and
   think to pay your debts to Him by repeating some prayers?”
   (Text.)--_Missionary Review of the World._

    (329)


                                CHAINS

   David had twenty-four columns of marble around his banqueting
   room, and he chained a bandit and an old enemy to each column,
   and in the presence of his enemies feasted. Christ enables the
   soul to chain hate, envy, lying, avarice, gluttony, jealousy,
   evil-speaking, sloth, and then the soul exclaims, Thou hast
   spread me a table in the midst of mine enemies! (Text.)--N.
   D. HILLIS.

    (330)


                               CHALLENGE

   The outburst of the matchless hymnic genius of Isaac Watts
   was the response to a challenge. When a youth of eighteen he
   complained to his father, who was a deacon in an Independent
   church at Southampton, England, of the poor quality of the hymns
   sung in the nonconformist services of the time. “Suppose you
   make a few,” said his father, with more than a suggestion of
   gentle sarcasm. Taking up the challenge, the poet retired; and
   soon, out from his seclusion where he had put on his “singing
   robes,” came the hymn: “Behold the Glories of the Lamb,”
   which was sung at an early meeting; and so began a career of
   hymn-writing which continued through the author’s life, and
   which later aroused to song a whole nest of singing-birds.

    (331)


   =Chance and Work=--See TOIL AND PROVIDENCE.


   =Chance, Decision by=--See COINCIDENCE AND SUPERSTITION.


                          CHANCE FOR THE BOY

From _Congregational Work_ is taken the following incident:

   Patrick A. Collins, Mayor of Boston for a number of years past,
   believed that a boy’s word is worth listening to. One time
   complaint was made to him that a saloon was located too near a
   certain public school. The politicians and others interested
   in keeping the place open urged him not to interfere with the
   resort. The school authorities desired it closed and removed.

   After the Mayor had listened to arguments from both sides, he
   said:

   “Well, I’m going to let the boys of the school tell me what they
   think of the place. Send me,” he said to the principal of the
   school, “half a dozen of your brightest boys. I’ll listen to
   them.”

   The next day half a dozen of the boys, ranging from ten to
   fifteen years of age, called on the Mayor. Each boy gave some
   reason why he believed the saloon ought to be taken away, until
   it came to the last one, a youngster of twelve. He looked the
   Mayor squarely in the eye, and gave as his reason:

   “My school gives me a chance to be Mayor of Boston some day; the
   saloon can’t. I think us boys ought to have all the show we can
   get to be Mayor. That’s all I know about it.”

   The Mayor threw himself back in his chair and laughed heartily;
   then, straightening up, he said to the last spokesman:

   “My boy, you have said more than did all the politicians and the
   teachers. You shall have the show to be Mayor. That saloon will
   have to quit business at once.”

   The boys gave the Mayor a hearty cheer, and marched out of his
   office. They had conquered, and were consequently happy and
   triumphant.

    (332)


                           CHANGE RENOVATES

   Police captains find that if they change every man around to a
   different position about once in so often, it is good for the
   entire force. The managers of some business offices say that a
   good big jar is beneficial to almost everybody, and especially
   for those in danger of believing that they are indispensable.
   It is a most remarkable boy who is not improved, on occasions,
   by a genuine “calling down.”--JAMES M. STIFLER, “The
   Fighting Saint.”

    (333)


   =Change Wrought by Time=--See TIME, CHANGES OF.


   =Changes in China=--See CHINESE PROGRESS.


                       CHANGES WROUGHT BY CHRIST

   The geologist tells us that ages ago vast and horrible creatures
   filled the air and waters--fierce and hideous monsters swarmed
   and fought in the primeval slime; but in due time God swept away
   mastodon, mammoth, megatherium, and filled the world with mild
   and beautiful forms of life.

To-day we see moral changes wrought far more wonderful than any to
which the petrifactions of the geologist witness; we see the power
of Christ destroying passions far more terrible than the lizards,
serpents, and crocodiles of the antediluvian world, creating graces
sweeter and fairer than the choicest forms of perfected nature.--W.
L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (334)


   =Channels, Choked=--See LIFE.


                               CHARACTER

That a life tells more than a creed is shown in this incident told in
the _Young Man_:

   Mr. John Morley said to a Presbyterian minister who was his
   guest: “How was it that your Church tolerated Drummond? His
   views were surely not those of the Free Church.” “No,” said the
   minister, “but we never took him seriously as a thinker. No
   one believed that he would shape the theological opinions of
   the Church. We regarded him rather as a religious influence.”
   “Ah, yes,” said Mr. Morley, “you are quite right; he wasn’t
   a thinker.” After some talk on other matters he returned to
   the subject: “You said a little while ago that Drummond was a
   religious influence. How did he show that?” “Well,” replied the
   minister, “for one thing, he cleansed Edinburgh University life
   for several years.” “Ah,” said Mr. Morley thoughtfully, “that’s
   better than being a thinker.” It is never easy for the Church to
   drive out heretics who are not thinkers, but who purify by love
   the sources of spiritual life in men.

    (335)

       *       *       *       *       *

   As the light is rayed back from the flower and the wave, from
   the rock and the roadside, from all objects in nature and all
   ornaments of art, no matter from what center it emanated first,
   so the excellence of a character, when serenely and brightly
   exprest through life, attracts an immediate and instinctive
   response from all natures around it.--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (336)

   See APPEARANCE; TRUST.


   =Character and Evil=--See EVIL GERMINAL.


                          CHARACTER AND FAME

    Fame is what you have taken,
      Character is what you give;
    When to this truth you awaken,
      Then you begin to live.

    --BAYARD TAYLOR.

    (337)


   =Character and Manners=--See DUAL CHARACTER.


                          CHARACTER-BUILDING

   Men might as well try to erect a skyscraper on a bog as to
   attempt to build a character on anything less enduring than
   Jesus. Every little while some one makes a new religion with
   Jesus omitted. These structures dot the plains of nineteen
   centuries. For a time they appear attractive. But, sooner or
   later, their tenants discover that there is something wrong
   with the underpinning. Happy they if they can succeed in moving
   out before the flimsy fabrics collapse and bury their misguided
   occupants beneath unseemly ruins.--JOEL B. SLOCUM.

    (338)

   See DAILY CHARACTER WORK.


                 CHARACTER CONDITIONED BY THE PHYSICAL

A news item from Toledo, Ohio, reads:

   Skilled surgeons at St. Vincent’s hospital have transformed
   Harold Hurley, the bad boy, into Harold Hurley, the good boy.

   A few days ago, Harold, aged twelve, who was slated for the
   Lancaster reform school, was taken to the hospital. To-day he
   was taken home, a changed boy, different in thought, acts, and
   even appearance.

   Harold has been a problem to his mother and to the juvenile
   court officers for some time. Probation Officer Dilgart got a
   look at Harold recently and discovered a peculiar scar on the
   boy’s forehead. Inquiry developed that when five years of age
   Harold stumbled, and striking his head upon a stone, sustained a
   fracture of the skull. Gradually he became bad; but instead of
   being sent to Lancaster, he was removed to the hospital, where
   the pressure of a broken bone on his brain was removed.

   After the operation the lad’s faculties gathered slowly.
   Dr. James Donnelly states that the pressure of the piece
   of bone upon the brain had gradually dulled all the higher
   sensibilities, and if it had gone on Harold would in time have
   become an utter degenerate. (Text.)

    (339)


                          CHARACTER, CROWN OF

That all men may attain the crown of a Godlike character is the lesson
of this poem by Edwin Markham:

    When punctual death comes knocking at the door,
    To lead the soul upon the unknown road,
    There is one crown, one only, never flung
    Back to the dust by his fastidious hand.
    Touched by this crown, a man is king indeed,
    And carries fate and freedom in his breast;
    And when his house of clay falls ruining,
    His soul is out upon the path of stars!
    This is the one thing stronger than the years
    That tear the kingdoms down. Imperious time,
    Pressing a wasteful hand on mortal things,
    Reveals this young eternity in man.

    The peasant, he may earn it with the king,
    And tread an equal palace full of light.
    Fleet youth may seize this crown: slow-footed age
    May wear its immortality. Behold!
    Its power can turn bare rafters to a home
    Hallowed with hopes and hushed with memories;
    Can turn a field of ruin to a place
    Where pilgrims keep the watches of the night.

    (340)


                          CHARACTER IMPARTED

   Said a young lady to her hostess: “I want to scent my lace
   handkerchief and I have no sachet with me.” The handkerchief
   was taken by the lady and placed inside a great rose-jar. “Your
   handkerchief will be scented in a few hours and the fragrance
   will never depart from it.” And it never did. The lady explained
   that the jar had been obtained in China and had been a rose-jar
   for generations. But when it came into her possession she
   spent a large sum of money on attar of roses to penetrate the
   inner glazing of the glass and her object was fulfilled. The
   fragrance would never depart from it and was communicated to
   any object placed in it for a few hours. Roman Catholic priests
   remark that if they can have charge of a child until he is ten
   years of age he will never depart from the faith. Certainly the
   pervasive influence of the moral atmosphere is a mighty power in
   determining character.

    (341)


   =Character Impugned=--See MODESTY.


   =Character in Pictures=--See GENIUS, PORTRAYING.


   =Character Like the Diamond=--See REFLECTION OF GOD.


                     CHARACTER MORE THAN CLOTHING

   A Scotch nobleman, seeing an old gardener of his establishment
   with a very ragged coat, made some passing remarks on its
   condition. “It’s a verra guid coat,” said the honest old man.
   “I can not agree with you there,” said his lordship. “Ah, it’s
   just a verra guid coat,” persisted the old man; “it covers a
   contented spirit, and a body that owes no man anything, and
   that’s mair than mony a man can say of his coat.” (Text.)

    (342)


                       CHARACTER NOT PURCHASABLE

In an address, made not long before his death, Bishop Potter, of New
York, said:

   About a year ago there came into my study in New York some one
   whom I had never seen, a stranger whose name sent in upon his
   card I did not recognize, and whose errand I could not divine.
   “Sir,” he said, “I am from such and such a part of the country.
   In that part of the country a very fierce political campaign
   is now in progress. One of your clergy is attacking from the
   pulpit the moral character and moral standards of a gentleman, a
   candidate there for a very high office, whom I represent.”

   I said: “I have not got any clergymen out in that part of the
   world. I have no more jurisdiction there than you have.” He
   said: “Perhaps not in the sense you mean, but it is one of your
   men.” “Thank God for that,” said I. “As he came from here he
   believes in you, and he thinks that sort of talk is his duty.”
   “What do you want me to do?” I asked. “I want you to stop it,”
   said he, “and I am authorized by the distinguished gentleman
   whom I represent to say that if you will stop it he will make it
   worth your while.”

   I felt like saying, “I will come high.” I got up and walked to
   the door. I opened it and stood there. He looked there a moment
   in some perplexity. I said: “Does it not occur to you, sir, that
   this interview is at an end.” He went out.

   I mention that incident as a proof of the statement I have made
   here. Here was a person in a distant part of the country, a
   candidate for a very high position, who had not the smallest
   hesitation in sending an emissary to me with an intimation
   that if I were prepared to silence a speaker who was saying
   disagreeable things that money would be put to make it worth my
   while. I am saying that with that symptomatic you can not ignore
   the appalling significance of such a condition of things. (Text.)

    (343)


                            CHARACTER POTS

   I had sometimes caught a glimpse of the small scullery-maid at
   my boarding-house; but one day, slipping to the kitchen for a
   cup of hot water, I had a queer bit of a chat with her. She was
   scouring granite pots with a vim and vigor which were bound to
   bring results, and all the while her face was as shining as her
   finished work.

   “Do you like them, Alice?” I asked.

   “No, I hate them,” she replied emphatically.

   “What makes you smile so over them, then?” I asked, curiously.

   “Because they’re ‘character pots,’” the child replied at once.

   “What?” I inquired, thinking I had misunderstood.

   “‘Character pots,’ miss. You see, I used to only half clean
   them. I often cried over them, but Miss Mary told me as how, if
   I made them real shiny, they’d help to build my character. And
   ever since then I’ve tried hard, miss; and, oh, it’s been so
   much easier since I’ve known they were ‘character pots.’”

   I said a word or two of encouragement, and went on my way,
   knowing that I had been rubbing up against a real heroine.
   Everyday life is brimful of disagreeable duties. Why not turn
   them every one into “character pots?”--_East and West._

    (344)


                       CHARACTER SELF-COMMENDING

   It is told of Antipater, an officer in Alexander’s army and a
   favorite in his court, that one day Philip of Macedon, placed in
   a position which required special vigilance, made his appearance
   at a late hour in the morning, with the apology: “I have slept
   rather late this morning, but then I knew that Antipater was
   awake.” And at another time, when some person exprest surprize
   that Antipater did not clothe himself in a purple robe, the
   badge of nobility and greatness, as the other commanders and
   ministers of state were accustomed to do, Alexander replied:
   “Those men wear purple on the outside, but Antipater is purple
   within.”

    (345)


                      CHARACTER SHOWN IN THE FEET

   Distinctions of character are not seen, really, in the feet
   themselves, but in what the owner does with them. Sometimes it
   is significant that their owner does not know what to do with
   them. He is vulgarly, defiantly self-sufficient and despises
   ceremony, so when he smokes a cigar he puts his feet on the
   mantel-piece, out of the way. Or he is a country-bumpkin,
   painfully self-conscious, so he stands on one foot and then on
   the other, and shifts them about, perplexed what to do with
   them, as ill-bred folks, when they sit idle and sociable, are
   perplexed by possessing a pair of hands. On the contrary, the
   fop--whose feet are clad without spot or speck, and regardless
   of expense--knows very well what to do with them; they are part
   of the exhibition which is his constant care. In general, it is
   a sign of vanity to thrust forward habitually a neat foot when
   one is at rest. A conceited man nurses a leg and admires a foot,
   which he twitches and twirls beneath his delighted eyes--quite
   unconsciously, and in a different manner from the fop; for
   the vain man thinks of the effect produced upon other people,
   but the conceited man is satisfied with himself, without any
   regard to the ordinary mortals who may chance to be observing
   him. Very different is the generous mind of the philanthropist,
   who thinks constantly of the rest of the world, and not of
   himself. There is nothing cramped about any of his ideas or of
   his possessions. He forgets such small matters as fashion and
   details of appearance. Except on state occasions, he considers
   neatness to be a hindrance; everything about him is large, from
   his benevolent schemes down to his well-worn shoes. His stand
   is not alert, but patient, well set on the ground; he is ready
   and steady; he waits to give what he can, and to do what he
   can, and while he thinks of weighty matters, personal details
   are forgotten. He may walk flat-footed in old shoes; insteps
   and heels are infinitely beneath his consideration, so his foot
   is not the type that the dancing-master believes to be the one
   thing necessary for a gentleman; but he has already flattened
   injustice under his feet, and the horror of the dancing-master
   shall never reach his ears.--_Cassell’s Family Magazine._

    (346)


   =Character, Springs of=--See SPRINGS OF CHARACTER.


                         CHARACTER, SUPPORT OF

   A man once purchased a vacant lot on which stood a gigantic
   elm-tree.

   So much did he admire the elm that when he erected his house he
   built it around the trunk. He did not care to mutilate it or cut
   it down, but desired that it should constantly exhale its aroma
   and moisture in his drawing-room. The silence of its growth
   and steady expansion would be a constant source of interest to
   himself and to his friends. The opening in the roof was capped
   to shut out the insect enemies and to shut in the fragrance.
   When a cyclone swept over the village and the lightning flashed
   around, the house had shelter and protection in the tree. Other
   houses might fall, but not that one.

   We are all builders of character. Whether that character will
   stand the tests of life or not depends on whether we have built
   Christ into our character or not. If He is in us a real and
   living personality, we shall never fail. (Text.)

    (347)


                          CHARACTER, TEST OF

   You can not read a man so well during his busy hours as by what
   he does after supper, or from the closing hour of business to
   bedtime. You can not gage his character so well by the money
   he spends for necessaries or the living of his family as by
   that little overplus of money which is left after the necessary
   expenses are paid. What does he do with his spare money, that
   margin left over from business and from living expenses? What
   he does with that margin will throw a wonderful light upon his
   character.

   The largest part of every active life must be devoted to getting
   a living, attending to one’s affairs, and this is done by most
   people in a routine sort of a way. You can not tell much about
   the real man during these hours, because he has a system, his
   regular daily routine, and he does very much the same thing
   every day. But the moment he is free, he is quite a different
   man. Then his real propensities come out. People are not natural
   until they are free from restraint.

   Watch the boy and the girl when they are free from their regular
   duties, and see how they spend their evenings, what society they
   keep, what companionships they form, what they do. This will be
   a pretty good test of their character.--_Success._

    (348)


   =Character that Shines=--See LUMINOSITY.


   =Character Unaffected by Death=--See DEATH DOES NOT CHANGE
     CHARACTER.


                      CHARACTER, UNSEEN PLACES IN

The editor of the _Central Presbyterian_ moralizes on flowers from
a back yard as follows:

   A lovely flower came to us last week from the back yard of a
   home in the city. It was a white hyacinth, large and full, white
   as the driven snow, and sweetly perfumed. And it came not from
   the florist’s hothouse, nor from the fine plot at the front of
   a good home, but from the little yard at the rear. What a thing
   of beauty and fragrance to spring up in this homely place,
   common, soiled and trampled! It is a happy thought, not uncommon
   nowadays, to make the back yard, not often seen by other’s eyes,
   a place of beauty and sweetness, turning the common and the
   obscure into a source of pleasure and all that is wholesome and
   inspiring.

   One may do well to look after the back yard of his own life. He
   has sometimes a front that all men see and admire. Toward his
   friends and neighbors he is careful to make a fair exhibition
   of good morals and courteous manner. He maintains a front with
   which no fault can be found. But can the rear, the small and
   commonplace, the every-day and out-of-sight part of character
   and conduct, bear the same careful inspection? Are there any
   fair and fragrant flowers that spring up where no man ever
   looks, and only God’s eye can see?

    (349)


   =Character Wrought by Hardship=--See SAVED IN SERVICE.


                         CHARACTERISTIC TRAITS

A look, a touch, a word is enough, not infrequently, to betray the man
back of it, the unconscious being the characteristic.

   Mendelssohn once revealed his masterhand as a musician to
   the organ-keeper in Strasburg Cathedral by the way he made
   the instrument speak, just as Giotto, as an artist, did to a
   stranger on one occasion by drawing a perfect circle at a stroke.

    (350)


   =Characteristics Revealing Authorship=--See RECOGNITION BY ONE’S
     WORK.


   =Characterization, Improper=--See BADNESS IN BOYS.


                                CHARITY

    Don’t look for the flaws as you go through life,
      And, even when you find them,
    It’s wise and kind to be somewhat blind,
      And search for the light behind them.

    (351)

   See OTHER SIDE, THE.


   =Charity, Inadequate=--See INJUSTICE.


                           CHARITY, LOGIC OF

   Put a Chinaman into your hospital and he will get treated. You
   may lie awake at night drawing up reasons for doing something
   different with this disgusting Chinaman--who somehow is in
   the world and is thrown into your care, your hospital, your
   thought--but the machinery of your own being is so constructed
   that if you take any other course with him than that which you
   take with your own people, your institution will instantly lose
   its meaning; you would not have the face to beg money for its
   continuance in the following year. The logic of this, which, if
   you like, is the logic of self-protection under the illusion of
   self-sacrifice, is the logic which is at the bottom of all human
   progress. The utility of hospitals is not to cure the sick. It
   is to teach mercy. The veneration for hospitals is not because
   they cure the sick, it is because they stand for love, and
   responsibility.--JOHN JAY CHAPMAN.

    (352)


                           CHARITY RESPECTED

   It is reported that during the late disturbances in southern
   China consequent upon the French expedition to Tonquin, a small
   Wesleyan mission station at Fatshan was at the mercy of a
   riotous mob. The chapel was wrecked. The hospital for days was
   menaced and was hourly expected to fall, but here, for the first
   time, the rioters appeared to hesitate. Some of the sick were
   removed before their eyes; others, they knew, could not leave
   the building. They constantly threatened assault, but the blow
   never came, and amid their angry menaces the doctor was allowed
   to pass freely to and from the hospital. A finer touch than
   that which compelled a kindred feeling between this rabble and
   its foreign benefactors does not exist in nature. The Chinese
   mob probably did not include many acute controversialists in
   theology, but it did, as a whole, recognize the presence
   of that charity which is rightly regarded as the essence of
   religion.--London _Lancet_.

    (353)


   =Charm, A, Surrendered=--See RESERVATION.


   =Chastening=--See AFFLICTION, USES OF.


   =Chastisement=--See DISCIPLINE.


                              CHEER, GOOD

Eben E. Rexford writes this cheering philosophy:

    Tell me, what’s the use of fretting when we think that things go
      wrong?
    It never makes them better; but I’ve heard it said a song
    Makes the heavy load seem lighter, and will cheer the troubled
      heart
    Till it quite forgets its worries, and its vexing cares depart--
    As the wind that sweeps the marshes where the fog hangs, chill and
      gray,
    Moves the mists that mar the morning till it blows them all away.

    So, whenever storm-clouds gather till they hide the sun from sight,
    And it’s darker in the morning than it ought to be at night,
    Then let’s sing about the sunshine that is on the other side
    Of the darkest cloud, my comrade. Let the song ring far and wide
    On the listening ear of others who climb the hill with you.
    Till the rifted clouds are scattered, and the gray old world seems
      new.

    (354)


                           CHEER, SIGNALS OF

   Sailors who navigate the seas on the South Atlantic coast are
   always glad when they near the harbor of Savannah, for that
   means that they will pass within saluting distance of the
   “little lighthouse girl.” This is the officially accepted title
   of Florence Martus, who has for the last eleven years waved a
   friendly signal to every craft passing between the city and the
   sea. It is a hobby of this young girl to greet the ships that go
   and wish them a safe return, and greet the ships that come and
   congratulate them on their voyage.

   The Martus dwelling is the only habitation on Elba Island. There
   is no landing wharf, and visitors arrive on an average once a
   year. The barks, the steamers, and the various other craft never
   get near enough for an exchange of greetings other than that
   most expressive form of good will, the waving of a handkerchief
   by day and of a lantern by night. And as the girl sends out her
   welcome, the seamen who know all about her, and who would resent
   the elimination of the ceremony which she so popularized, send
   back an answering salute, three “toots” of the steam-whistle.
   Then Miss Martus is as happy as a belle at a debutante party.

   It is her desire that no vessel shall pass the lighthouse
   without receiving a salute. She never overlooks a sail in the
   daytime, and her handkerchief is ever ready for its service
   of cordiality. She says it is her ambition to signal every
   ship that touches at Savannah. She was asked her reason for
   signalling the passing sea throng, and she answered that it was
   to cheer the crew.

This beautiful and unselfish ministry illustrates how a noble heart
invents ways to scatter sunshine. The world passes us like ships on the
sea. How much interest do we take in others? How far a kind word, or
smile, or handshake goes to help the friendless and hopeless. It is not
the great acts but the little deeds of kindness that make human beings
happy. (Text.)

    (355)

       *       *       *       *       *

   “That boy,” said the foreman in the machine-shop, “will make a
   good workman. He always whistles at his work.” (Text.)

    (356)


   =Cherubim=--See LOVE RATHER THAN KNOWLEDGE.


   =Child, A, as Reconciler=--See GOOD WILL.


   =Child, A Little=--See SOUL, YOUR.


                           CHILD, FAITH OF A

The prediction that “a little child shall lead them” applies in this
poem to a skeptic rather than to ravenous beasts.

    A little child walked by my side,
      I had lost faith in God and man,
    He prattled of his joys and hopes
      As only little children can.
    I did not try to blast his hopes,
      I did not tell him of my pain,
    And, somehow, when our walk was done,
      My shattered faith was whole again.

    --RENA HURD INGHAM, _Congregationalist_.
    (Text.)

    (357)


   =Child, Influence of a=--See PARDON FOR A CHILD’S SAKE.


                              CHILD LABOR

   The National Child Labor Committee was organized in 1904. Up
   to that time very little had been done toward preventing the
   employment of children in many industries, the worst of these
   being the work of coal-breaking in mines and long days of labor
   in textile factories. A summary of the work accomplished by the
   committee in six years will show the gains that are being made
   in saving children from the too heavy burdens of labor at a
   tender age, under which their growth is often stunted, and their
   education interrupted or prevented.

   Eight-hour day for children under 16 established in 10 States
   and District of Columbia (in many or all industries).

   Hours of employment for children reduced in 13 more States.

   Child labor laws passed for the first time in 6 States.

   Age limit of 14 years applied to factories and stores: In 1904,
   12 States; in 1910, 19 States.

   Also from factories and stores the limit in 1910 extends to
   offices, laundries, hotels, bowling-alleys, etc.

   Age limit of 16 for work in coal-mines; 1904 none. In 1910 6
   States fixt limit of 16 years; 18 States at 14, and 8 States at
   12.

   Employment forbidden during school hours: 1904 in 14 States;
   1910 in 23 States.

   Night-work prohibited: 1904 in 13 States, the age limit in some
   being as low as 12 years. 1910: 24 States with 16-year limit,
   7 States with 14-year limit, 2 States with 12-year limit, 1
   State (in certain industries) with 18-year limit. New York
   prohibited night work in messenger service 10 P.M. to 5
   A.M. to all minors.

   Compulsory education: Laws for the first time in 6 States. Age
   limit for attendance raised in 6 (more) States.

   Child-labor laws now (1910) exist in every State except Nevada.
   They are being steadily improved.

    (358)

   See MISSIONARIES IN THE MAKING.


                          CHILD, LEADING OF A

   A young mother who had lost her firstborn, sat fondling its icy
   hands, and amid her tears said, “If ever I get to heaven, it
   will be these little fingers that will pull me there.” (Text.)

    (359)


   =Child Nature=--See ANIMISM.


                            CHILD RELIGION

   There is a striking story of a certain missionary who was
   sent for on one occasion to go to a little village in an
   out-of-the-way corner of India to baptize and receive into
   church fellowship sixty or seventy adult converts from Hinduism.

   At the commencement of the proceedings he had noticed a boy
   about fifteen years of age sitting in a back corner, looking
   very anxiously and listening very wistfully. He now came
   forward. “What, my boy? Do you want to join the Church?” “Yes,
   sir.” “But you are very young, and if I were to receive you into
   fellowship with the Church to-day, and then you were to slip
   aside, it would bring discredit upon this church and do great
   injury to the cause of Christ. I shall be coming this way again
   in about six months. Now you be very loyal to the Lord Jesus
   Christ during that time, and if when I come again at the end of
   the half year I find you still stedfast and true, I will baptize
   and receive you gladly.”

   No sooner was this said than all the people rose to their feet,
   and, some speaking for the rest, said: “Why, sir, it is he who
   has taught us all that we know about Jesus Christ.”

   And so it turned out to be. This was the little minister of the
   little church the honored instrument in the hand of God for
   saving all the rest for Jesus Christ.

    (360)


                           CHILD, SAVED BY A

   Dr. George Grenfell, who did much to open up to civilization and
   to Christianity the hinterland of the Kongo, was traveling in
   the little steamer called the _Peace_ up a great tributary
   of the Kongo which had never before been navigated by a white
   man. Suddenly the craft was stopt and surrounded by a crowd
   of canoes filled with natives. These were armed with spears
   and their attitude was hostile and malignant. Dr. Grenfell
   momentarily expected that some of the murderous weapons would be
   hurled at him. But by a happy inspiration he called to his wife
   who was in the cabin, “Show them the baby!” She rushed forward
   and held out the infant she was nursing. The savages, amazed at
   the sight of the first light-colored baby they had ever seen,
   and charmed with its smiles and its entire lack of fear, dropt
   their spears, smiled in their turn with delight, and at once
   became the sincere friends of the missionaries. Thus once again
   was verified the prediction, “A little child shall lead them.”

    (361)


                              CHILD, THE

The value and possibilities of a new-born child are thus set forth by
James Oppenheim:

    You may be Christ or Shakespeare, little child,
      A savior or a sun to the lost world.
      There is no babe born but may carry furled
    Strength to make bloom the world’s disastrous wild.
    Oh, what then must our labors be to mold you,
      To open the heart, to build with dream the brain,
      To strengthen the young soul in toil and pain,
    Till our age-aching hands no longer hold you!

    Vision far-dreamed! But soft! If your last goal
      Be low, if you are only common clay,
      What then? Toil lost? Were our toil trebled, nay!
    You are a soul, you are a human soul,
      A greater than the skies ten-trillion starred--
      Shakespeare no greater, O you slip of God!

    (Text.)--_Cosmopolitan._

    (362)

   See FAITH, A CHILD’S.


   =Child, The, as an Educator=--See HOME, FOUNDATION OF THE REPUBLIC.


   =Child Training=--See PRODIGY, A; TRAINING CHILDREN.


   =Child’s View of God=--See ANTHROPOMORPHISM.


   =Childhood and Nature=--See GOD IN THE CHILD MIND.


                     CHILDLIKE TRUST AND MATURITY

   A few days since, just after the recent snow-storm, I passed
   in the street a little fellow drawing a sled; a little,
   rosy-cheeked boy, who was so full of perfect happiness that
   his entire face was crinkled into a smile. He made a beautiful
   picture. That sled was his only responsibility, and that, along
   with the snow, made out for him a perfect heaven. I watched the
   lad and wished I were a boy again. It was a foolish wish, and
   yet not altogether foolish. There was something exquisite in the
   situation which one would have been not only foolish but stupid
   not to appreciate. He had no burden. His sled was unloaded, and
   slipt along over the frosty pavement almost of its own momentum.
   He had no anxieties. The little fellow’s heart is sometimes
   bruised, I suppose, but child bruises do not last as long as
   older bruises.

   But I had not gone many steps past him before I revised my wish,
   and thought only how beautiful it would be to have the innocence
   of the boy and his simple trust, and along with that the mature
   equipment opening out into the vast opportunities that form the
   heritage of years that are ripe.--CHARLES H. PARKHURST.

    (363)


   =Children=--See CRUELTY TO CHILDREN.


                      CHILDREN AND CIVIC SERVICE

   Two hundred clubs of children on the New York East Side
   cooperate with the street-cleaning department in keeping clean
   streets in their respective neighborhoods. They hand prepared
   cards furnished by the city to every one seen throwing rubbish
   in the street, which read as follows:

   Give your banana-peels to a horse. Horses like them.
   Orange-peels, peanut-shells, newspapers and other rubbish must
   not be thrown in the street. Keep yours and throw them in the
   receptacle placed at street corners for that purpose. You should
   sprinkle your sidewalk before sweeping. Don’t raise the dust,
   as it breeds disease. It is against the law to throw rubbish
   from the windows to the street. Don’t put paper, rags and other
   rubbish either in the ash-can or garbage-can.

   A badge is given to each child to wear on which is inscribed the
   motto: “We are for clean streets.” Thus thousands of children
   are learning to take pride in their city.

    (364)


                         CHILDREN AND GARDENS

   Professor Hanna, head of the Department of Natural History of
   the Board of Education, New York, divided an open lot into some
   three hundred little garden plots, took boys from the Bowery
   district, and girls as well. Each child spaded up its own
   ground, planted its seeds, pulled out the weeds, and watched
   the ruddy vegetables grow. A thousand questions arose to these
   city-born children. Given a black clod and a drop of rain-water,
   and a few seeds, how does the same clod make a beet red, and a
   carrot a golden hue? How could one clod condense the smells of
   a whole soap factory, into one little onion? How does a potato
   come to have starch in it? If one bunch of green weeds is worth
   ten cents for spinach, why doesn’t everybody in Wall Street go
   to farming? When some of the boys reached the Bowery Saturday
   night, the first question they asked their fathers was: “How
   much it would take to buy a ticket to Dakota.” Ah, Wordsworth,
   looking across the field, and writing, “My heart with rapture
   thrills and dances with the daffodils,” and Ruskin with his
   confession of what the fields and brooks did for his culture,
   throw a pathetic light on the lives of the little waifs of
   the tenement-house, starved for an outlook on the grass and
   the wave, and the shrub and the flower. Plainly the child has
   a right to its outlook upon the world of nature.--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (365)


   =Children and Music=--See MUSIC AND CHILDREN.


   =Children and the Bible=--See ADAPTING THE BIBLE.


                  CHILDREN FORMING PARENTS’ CHARACTER

   A friend once said to me: “So long as my children were little,
   I lived at peace with my faults and bad habits. Perhaps they
   were annoying to others, but they caused me no uneasiness. But
   since my children have grown up, I am ashamed to meet their
   eyes, for I know they judge me, observe my attitude, my manner
   of acting, and measure my words. Nothing escapes them; neither
   the little ‘white lie,’ nor my illogical reasoning; neither
   unjustifiable irritation, nor any of the thousand imperfections
   I formerly indulged in. I require now to be constantly on my
   guard, and what will finally happen is this, that, instead
   of my having trained them, my children will have formed my
   character.”--DORA MELEGARI, “Makers of Sorrow and
   Makers of Joy.”

    (366)


                    CHILDREN, LINCOLN’S REGARD FOR

   When Lincoln, on his way by train from Washington to Gettysburg,
   was halted at a station, a little girl was lifted up to an
   open window of the car, and handing a bouquet of rosebuds to
   him, said: “Flowers for the President!” Mr. Lincoln took the
   rosebuds, bent down and kissed the child, saying, “You’re a
   sweet little rosebud yourself. I hope your life will open into
   perpetual beauty and goodness.”

    (367)


   =Children Missionaries=--See SONG, EFFECTIVE.


   =Children, Neglecting the=--See HOME, THE OLD AND THE NEW.


   =Children, Religious Nature of=--See ANIMISM.


                   CHILDREN, ROMAN CATHOLIC CARE OF

Bishop Fowler, in the _Christian Advocate_, describes the method
by which Roman Catholic institutions in South America receive and care
for foundlings:

   No thoughtful man can watch the long processions of children
   which the sisters are teaching, and believe that Romanism
   is closing its career. She takes the utmost care of all the
   children she can obtain. In the great cities she has her
   foundling institutions. The arrangement for receiving foundlings
   is unique. It reminds one of the standard advertisements for
   stolen property, “No questions asked.” There is a rotary dummy
   in the side of the building above the sidewalk. This contrivance
   turns round instead of moving on pulleys. The outside is simply
   flush with the wall. Any one can turn it around. On the other
   side is a little bed. The waif is placed in this bed, the trap
   is turned back to its place, a bell is rung, a servant comes to
   the bed, takes out the waif, and no one is the wiser. The party
   depositing the child may be round the corner and gone in the
   darkness. The child is cared for, soon put to work, soon hired
   out, and becomes a source of income to the institution, and adds
   one more to the rolls of the church.

    (368)


                             CHILDREN SAFE

   An old sexton in a cemetery took special pains with the little
   graves. When asked why, he said: “Sir, about those larger graves
   I don’t know who are the Lord’s saints, and who are not; but you
   know, sir, it’s different with the bairns.” (Text.)

    (369)


                           CHILDREN, SAVING

Judge Benjamin B. Lindsey speaks as follows of his work in dealing with
juvenile delinquents:

   I have often been asked how it is if I can trust a youthful
   burglar to go alone to a reformatory why can not I trust him to
   go alone to work?

   The answer is that the individual is weak rather than vicious.
   He is strong enough to last over night, but not strong enough to
   last a month. He goes to the institution. He learns the trade
   of a carpenter or a stone-cutter--then he has some incentive in
   life. He gets out of the habit of being bad. When he comes out
   he is proud of his job, and as soon as we get him work he wants
   to show how well he can do it--the past is behind him forever.

   This new children’s crusade started in 1900. We are now going
   on the theory that the law is not one-tenth of the problem.
   Psychology, for want of a better word, is the other nine-tenths.
   The solution of the problem of child delinquents lies chiefly
   in knowing how to get at truth, in getting loyalty to the state
   and to the law. Once you get a boy to go regularly to school
   the problem is solved. On the other hand, we do not want him to
   think that the court is a brute or dead easy.

    (370)


                      CHILDREN’S RELIGIOUS IDEAS

                           A CHILD’S PRAYER

   Please, God, grandpa has gone to you. Take good care of him.
   Please always mind and shut the door, because he can’t stand
   drafts.

    (371)

                         A PRAYER TO THE DEVIL

   A little child was seen to bury a piece of paper in the ground.
   On examination of the paper by a curious adult, it was seen to
   contain the following: “Dear devil, please come and take aunt. I
   can’t stand her much longer.”

    (372)

                             MEN ARE GODS

   Seeing a group of workmen, a child said:

   “Mama, are these gods?”

   “Gods? Why?”

   “Because they make houses and churches, same as God makes moons
   and people and ickle dogs.”

    (373)

                      A WRESTLE WITH OMNIPRESENCE

   A girl who had been taught that God is everywhere said, one day:

   “Mama, me don’t see God. I dess He’s don to take a walk.”

    (374)

                         GOD POSSESSES A BODY.

   A child who heard the expression, “this footstool,” used in a
   conversation, asked the man on whose knees she sat at the time
   the meaning of the expression. On being told that the earth is
   often spoken of as “God’s footstool,” she exclaimed:

   “O-h-h! what long legs!”

   Another child drew a picture of Jesus and of God, making God
   have very long arms.

    (375)

                       HEAVENLY MAIL FACILITIES

   A child whose grandmother had just died asked her mother if God
   had a street and a number. When asked why she wanted to know,
   she replied:

   “Nothing, only I wanted to write a letter to Him to send grandma
   back again.”

    (376)

                          A COWORKER WITH GOD

   A three-year-old boy was with a woman whose home was a second
   home to him. They were in the flower-garden. Seeing a crocus in
   bloom, and remembering that the previous fall he had put the
   bulb into the ground (as one of his age so often does things, by
   the help of others), he asked, “Did I make that flower grow?”
   When told that God sent the rain and the sunshine which made it
   grow, he insisted that he had had a part in the process, and
   finally dropt the subject by saying:

   “God and I make the flowers grow.”--A. B. BUNN VAN ORMER,
   “Studies in Religious Nurture.”

    (377)


   =Children’s Thoughts About God=--See ANTHROPOMORPHISM.


                      CHINA AND AMERICA COMPARED

   They tell a story of President Sheffield, of North China
   College, and a great military official, who is his friend. I
   met the general once during the Chinese New-year holidays. He
   is a large, fine-looking man, very liberal and progressive, and
   much interested in Western customs. One day, when calling, he
   was discussing these. Suddenly he drew his chair very close to
   Dr. Sheffield and said in a confidential whisper: “Tell me, is
   it true that in your country the woman and not the man is the
   head of the household?” Dr. Sheffield drew a little nearer and
   answered in the same manner: “Well, I will tell you just how
   it is. Sometimes it is the one, and sometimes it is the other.
   It just depends on who is the stronger.” “Ah!” and the general
   leaned back with a sigh of relief. “That is just the way it is
   with us.”--FRANCES B. PATTERSON, “Student Volunteer
   Movement,” 1906.

    (378)


                           CHINESE PROGRESS

   The Rev. Dr. J. Walter Lowrie, returning to the field after
   a furlough prolonged by ill-health, writes in amazement that
   the changes that had taken place during his absence of twenty
   months were greater than had taken place during the preceding
   twenty years of his residence in China. Of course, there is
   commotion. You could not expect one-third of the human race to
   rouse itself from the sleep of ages without having more or less
   disturbance in various places. But the disturbances in China
   to-day are signs of progress. They mean that at last China is
   awake. We remember that of old, the dying Francis Xavier lifted
   up his hands and said: “Oh, rock! rock! when wilt thou open?”
   For nearly a hundred years Protestantism has been hammering
   upon that rock. Now it has opened.--A. JUDSON BROWN,
   “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (379)


                               CHIVALRY

The days of the Crusades are gone, but the spirit of chivalry abides
to-day as then.

   When Captain Moreu, of the Spanish cruiser _Cristobal
   Colon_, was in New York, he was interviewed by a reporter
   who, in the excess of his patriotism, put this rather indelicate
   question to the vanquished naval officer: “What do you think,
   Captain Moreu, of the chivalry of a nation whose women greet the
   admiral of a hostile power with kisses and flowers?” a reference
   to the way Admiral Cervera was lionized by American women on
   his way to a military prison. The bluff old captain of the
   _Colon_, who spoke English fluently, lifted his eyebrows,
   and, smiling indulgently, politely replied: “And what do you
   think of an admiral who could draw your brave Hobson from the
   water and kiss him in admiration of his courage? Remember, young
   man, chivalry is the monopoly of no nation.” (Text.)

    (380)


                                CHOICE

    Not what we have, but what we use,
    Not what we see, but what we choose;
    These are the things that mar, or bless,
    The sum of human happiness.

    The thing near by, not that afar;
    Not what we seem, but what we are;
    These are the things that make or break,
    That give the heart its joy or ache.

    Not what seems fair, but what is true;
    Not what we dream, but good we do;
    These are the things that shine like gems,
    Like stars in fortune’s diadems.

    Not as we take, but as we give,
    Not as we pray, but as we live;
    These are the things that make for peace
    Both now and after time shall cease.

    --_The Outlook._

    (381)


   =Choice by Chance=--See DEVIL, THE, CHOSEN.


   =Choice, Everything Depends on=--See EXPERIENCE, VALUE OF.


                     CHOICE IN PRIMITIVE ORGANISMS

   Headly, in his book on “Life and Evolution,” instances our old
   friend, the ameba, which we have since childhood all agreed to
   be one of the most primitive forms of life. This microscopic
   creature, a unicellular morsel of protoplasm, undoubtedly has
   the power of choice. It exercises this power whenever it eats.
   Diatoms enveloped in flint are its favorite food. When an ameba
   comes in contact with one of these minute vegetables it swallows
   it through an aperture--a mouth--which it conveniently makes at
   whichever point an aperture is required. But when, on the other
   hand, the ameba comes in contact with a small grain of flint he
   leaves it severely alone; he does not treat it as he does the
   flinty envelop of the diatom.

    (382)


   =Choice, Right=--See WAY, THE RIGHT.


                           CHOICE UNFORESEEN

Men for high positions are not always chosen because of previous
preeminence, but frequently through circumstances of situations or from
expediency:

   There are Presidential candidates and aspirants who have an
   erroneous idea of the candidacy, similar to that of many persons
   on the subject of wines and cigars, who consider the oldest
   as the best; while the real connoisseur knows perfectly well
   that such commodities are not permitted to exceed a certain age
   without losing rather than gaining in quality. Some keep their
   Presidential aspirations constantly before the people--as, for
   instance, Blaine and Sherman for several years. Others get up a
   drumming and fifing as soon as the year for the nomination comes
   on? If most of these people would poke their noses a little into
   the political history of this country, they would find that for
   a generation or more we have had no President whose reputation
   and “boom” was two years older than the hour of his election.
   When the Democrats nominated James K. Polk as their candidate,
   the politicians, surprized and disillusioned, inquired, “Who is
   James K. Polk?” The name of the Whig President, Zachary Taylor,
   was famous scarcely one year before the election. Pierce and
   Buchanan were absolutely less known than their rivals, Marcy
   and Cass, and before Lincoln’s nomination there was nowhere
   any talk about him; every one was thinking of Seward. Who, in
   1862, would have prophesied that U. S. Grant would one day
   become General-in-chief and President of the Republic? Such an
   individual would have been regarded as fit subject of a lunatic
   asylum. Hayes owed his nomination to his hard-won victory of the
   year previous over the Democrat, Allen, in the gubernatorial
   campaign in Ohio; and no one had thought of Garfield two days
   before his nomination.--_Der Deutsche Correspondent._

    (383)


   =Choices=--See MODESTY.


                              CHOIR, THE

Church choirs are often a source of trouble to a pastor. A colored
minister down South takes hold of the situation thus:

   De choir will now sing dat beautiful piece, “We ain’t got
   long to stay heah,” after which dey will consider demselves
   discha’ged and will file out quietly, one by one. We’se gwine to
   hab con’gational singin’ heahaftah in dis yere chu’ch.

    (384)


                                CHOKED

   It is a dreadful thing to be choked. Those who have either by
   accident or design suffered partial strangulation tell us that
   it is one of the most dreadful experiences. It must, to the
   all-seeing eye of God, be a dreadful thing to behold so many
   of His children gasping for a breath of life, being choked
   by the evil weeds, thorns, and tares indigenous to the flesh
   or diligently planted there by the enemy of souls while they
   sleep. It is a sad thing to see the corners of a corn-field left
   unreaped during the harvest (because the grain growing there
   among the thorns is not worth reaping), afterward reaped down
   and bound in bundles and burned, the thorns and choked product
   of a good seed together. It is a sadder thing to behold the
   lives of not a few Christians all overgrown and choked with
   thorns and weeds just ripening for the fire of destruction,
   because they are shriveled and choked and not fit to be gathered
   into our Lord’s garner. (Text.)--_The Independent._

    (385)


                     CHRIST A GUIDE TO THE FATHER

   Mr. Robert E. Speer met a poor blind Christian in Korea
   whose only knowledge of the word of God had come through the
   kindnesses of his friends, when they would read, translating
   out of a Chinese Bible and giving chapter and verse as they
   read. His knowledge of the life of Christ was wonderful, and
   when Mr. Speer asked him what incident he liked best of all
   in the gospel, he said, “I like best the ninth chapter of the
   Gospel of John, that tells the story of the blind man to whom
   the Lord restored his sight.” Mr. Speer asked the man what he
   looked forward to most, and he replied, “I look forward most to
   Christ’s meeting me at the gate of heaven. I wouldn’t dare to go
   up to see the Father alone, a poor blind man from Korea, but I
   shall wait at the gate, and He will find me out just as he did
   that poor blind man in the ninth of John, and He will lead me up
   to his Father and mine.”

    (386)


                            CHRIST APPROVED

   In London City Temple, Dr. Joseph Parker was troubled by the
   absence of workingmen from church, and invited hundreds to lunch
   there. He said: “Bring your dinner buckets, and your pipes if
   you want to; I want to have a good talk with you.” Stepping out
   in front of them, he said:

   “Men, why don’t you come to church?”

   A leader among them said: “The Church is not for the likes
   of us, the Church is for the rich, and the Church is for the
   prosperous. You don’t want us there; that is what is the matter
   with the Church.”

   Dr. Parker then said, “Men, what is the matter with Jesus of
   Nazareth?”

   Instantly a working man swung his cap and said: “He is all
   right.” And a thousand or more working men kept swinging their
   caps and saying, “He is all right, He is all right.” (Text.)

    (387)


   =Christ a Protector=--See PROTECTION.


                         CHRIST, A THERAPEUTIC

   An experiment in treating neurotic patients was tried in the
   Massillon State Hospital, Ohio, when a picture entitled,
   “Christ Knocking at the Door,” a copy of Hofmann’s masterpiece,
   was unveiled during the religious services. The painting was
   life-size, on cathedral glass, and illuminated by electric
   lights. The hope was that by flashing the lights suddenly on the
   picture a beneficial therapeutic effect would be produced on the
   minds of the inmates of the hospital. (Text.)

    (388)


   =Christ as Pattern=--See FOLLOWING CHRIST.


                       CHRIST, DESTROYER OF SIN

   Recent science has enabled us to solve enigmas of the physical
   universe which once seemed forever impenetrable. Cholera has
   been, for example, through long ages “a pestilence walking in
   darkness.” There was no denying the plague; it demonstrated
   itself in the most awful manner, but none could divine its
   active principle, the secret of its power. But at last the
   cholera-germ has been tracked out, and the fatal pest never
   before seen by human eyes can now be studied under a powerful
   microscope, large as the human hand. The immense significance of
   this discovery to our race who may say?

For ages sin has been preeminently the pestilence walking at noonday,
and the world has stood aghast before the obscure and terrible
destroyer; but the glass of revelation in the hand of Jesus Christ
has shown large and vivid the fatal principle which has tainted and
decimated the race.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”
(Text.)

    (389)


                           CHRIST, FAITH IN

The last hours of the great Archbishop Whately are a brilliant
testimony to the simplicity of his faith and complete devotion to
Christ.

   To one who observed his sufferings and asked him if he suffered
   much pain, he said:

   “Some time ago I should have thought it great pain, but now I
   am enabled to bear it.” His intellect was unclouded by illness.
   He could think and speak. Some one said to him, “You are dying
   as you have lived, great to the last.” The reply was, “I am
   dying as I lived, in the faith of Jesus.” Another said, “What a
   blessing your glorious intellect is unimpaired.” He answered,
   “Do not call intellect glorious; there is nothing glorious out
   of Christ!” Another said, “The great fortitude of your character
   supports you.” “No, it is not the fortitude of my character
   supports me, but my faith in Christ.” (Text.)

    (390)


                            CHRIST FOR ALL

   In an Austrian city there are twelve figures of Christ, each
   representing a different aspect. The country folk, crossing
   the bridge to the city in the morning, worship them as they
   pass. The stockmen pray to the image of Christ the Shepherd,
   the artizans to Christ the Carpenter, the market-gardeners to
   Christ the Sower, the ailing and infirm to Christ the Physician,
   the fishermen to Christ the Pilot, etc. “Enlightened minds will
   never forget that there is but one Christ, and yet to each
   follower the thought of Him that is born of a special need will
   always be the one that makes His image in the soul.”

    (391)


   =Christ, Glory of=--See GLORY OF CHRIST.


                          CHRIST, GOODNESS OF

   A missionary was speaking with a Tibetan Lama about Christ. The
   Lama exprest himself charmed with the gospel story and then
   added, “Our saint Tsong K’aba was like Christ. He went about
   teaching and leading the people, and he was persecuted, too.”
   Then he added, “Even to-day it isn’t wise for a Lama to be too
   good!” (Text.)

    (392)


                      CHRIST IN THE CONGREGATION

Dr. George A. Gordon, the Boston preacher, tells of a dream that
transformed his ministry:

   I was in the pulpit before a great congregation, just ready to
   begin my sermon, when a stranger entered and passed slowly up
   the left aisle of the church, looking first to one side and then
   to the other, as tho silently asking with his eyes that some one
   would give him a seat. He had proceeded nearly half-way up the
   aisle when a gentleman stept out and offered him a place in his
   pew, which was quietly accepted. I remembered his face wore
   a peculiarly serious look, as of one who had known some great
   sorrow. His bearing, too, was exceedingly humble, his dress poor
   and plain, and from the beginning to the end of the service he
   gave the most respectful attention to the preacher. To myself
   I constantly asked, “Who can that stranger be?” And then I
   mentally resolved to find out by going up to him directly the
   service was over. But before I could reach him he had left the
   house. The gentleman with whom he sat, however, remained behind,
   and approaching him I asked, “Can you tell me who that stranger
   was who sat in your pew this morning?” He replied: “Why, do you
   not know that man? It was Jesus of Nazareth.”

   One had been present in the church for an hour who could tell
   me all that I so longed to know; who could point out to me the
   imperfections of my service; who could reveal to me my real
   self, to whom, perhaps, I am most a stranger; who could correct
   the errors in our worship, to which long usage and accepted
   traditions may have rendered us insensible. While I had been
   preaching for half an hour He had been there and listening,
   who could have told me all this, and infinitely more, and my
   eyes had been holden and I knew Him not, and now He was gone.
   And then I awoke, for behold, it was a dream. No, it was not a
   dream. It was a vision of the deepest reality, a miniature of an
   actual ministry. (Text.)

    (393)


                         CHRIST, INTIMACY WITH

   “I know Jesus Christ,” said Bushnell, “better than I know any
   man in the city of Hartford, and if He should be walking along
   the street and see me, He would say, ‘There goes a friend of
   mine.’” (Text.)

    (394)


                          CHRIST INVITING MEN

   In the Doré Gallery in London is the artist’s last picture,
   left unfinished. It is entitled, “The Vale of Tears,” and was
   intended to illustrate the words, “Come unto me all ye that
   labor and are heavy laden.” Jesus is in the distance pointing
   to Himself. Over Him is a deep mist spanned by a rainbow whose
   light in varying degrees falls upon the multitude of faces and
   forms before Him, some just touched, others beaming and aglow
   with radiance.

    (395)


   =Christ, Monument to=--See PEACE.


                           CHRIST OUR PILOT

   Passengers from Europe to New York know that when the steamer
   reaches a point fifteen miles from Sandy Hook the pilot comes
   on board to superintend the navigation into New York harbor.
   The great steamer slows down and the pilot climbs on board. If
   this happens in the darkness of night the passengers looking
   down from the deck can see a lantern on the surface of the ocean
   where the pilot’s boat is lying. Presently he emerges from the
   blackness and is soon on deck. From that moment the anxieties of
   the captain and the officers are at an end. So when Christ is on
   board our life, the government is upon His shoulders. (Text.)

    (396)


                         CHRIST STILL PRESENT

A common and comforting Christian belief is put into verse by Edith
Hickman Duvall:

    He has not changed through all the years.
          We know
    That He remembers all the weight of wo
    Which once opprest Him and the lonely way
    Through which His tired feet journeyed day by day,
    The pain He bore, the weariness and strife,
    The toil and care of His own human life.

    He is as near to human hearts to-day
    As when He journeyed on the earthly way;
    So near that all our wants are known to Him,
    So near that, tho our faith, grown cold and dim,
    Fails oftentimes to grasp the truth, He knows
    The secret story of our hidden woes. (Text.)

    (397)


                         CHRIST THE CONQUEROR

Priscilla Leonard writes this verse on Christ’s method of establishing
His reign:

    Kings choose their soldiers from the strong and sound
      And hurl them forth to battle at command.
      Across the centuries, o’er sea and land,
    Age after age, the shouts of war resound;
    Yet, at the end, the whole wide world around,
      Each empty empire, once so proudly planned,
      Melts through Time’s fingers like the dropping sand.

    But once a King--despised, forsaken, crowned
    Only with thorns--chose in the face of loss
      Earth’s poor, her weak, her outcast, gave them love,
      And sent them forth to conquer in His name
      The world that crucified Him, and proclaim
    His empire. Lo! Pride’s vanished thrones above
    Behold the enduring banner of the cross!

    (Text.)--_The Outlook._

    (398)


                            CHRIST THE DOOR

This poem by Mary M. Redding, is based on an actual incident of one of
Dr. George Adam Smith’s Syrian journeys:

    A traveler once, when skies were rose and gold
    With Syrian sunset, paused beside the fold
    Where an Arabian shepherd housed his flock;
    Only a circling wall of rough gray rock--
    No door, no gate, but just an opening wide
    Enough for snowy, huddling sheep to come inside.
    “So,” questioned he, “then no wild beasts you dread?”
    “Ah, yes, the wolf is near,” the shepherd said.

    “But”--strange and sweet the voice divine of yore
    Fell on his startled ear--“I am the door!
    When skies are sown with stars, and I may trace
    The velvet shadows, in this narrow space
    I lay me down. No silly sheep may go
    Without the fold but I, the shepherd, know.
    Nor need my cherished flock, close-sheltered, warm,
    Fear ravening wolf, save o’er my prostrate form.”

    O word of Christ--illumined evermore
    For us His timid sheep--“I am the door!”

    (Text.)--_Sunday-school Times._

    (399)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Outside one of the beautiful gateways of the magnificent mosque
   of St. Sophia, in Constantinople, there is a picture of an open
   Bible with this inscription: “The Lord said, I am the door; by
   me if any man enter in he shall be saved.” The Mohammedans left
   this inscription when they took the beautiful temple from the
   Christians; because they could see no reference in it to Jesus
   Christ. Everything else that suggested Christianity or the
   cross was obliterated. There is a twentieth-century spirit that
   would obliterate Jesus Christ and the necessity of His saving
   work. But meanwhile He, the strong Son of God, calmly waits
   for the world’s recognition. He has presented His proofs, and
   the responsibility is ours. There is no other gospel, no other
   road, no other Christ. For his own convenience man has invented
   a number of “short cuts.” But it remains as true to-day as when
   Jesus Himself spoke the words, that he who climbs up some other
   way is “a thief and a robber.”--JOEL B. SLOCUM.

    (400)


                         CHRIST, THE FIGURE OF

Monsignor Bonomelli, in a letter read at the World Missionary
Conference held in Edinburgh, June, 1910, said:

   Jesus has, in reality, not vanished either from history, or from
   the life of Christianity. He lives at all times in millions of
   souls, He is enthroned as King in all hearts. The figure of
   Christ has not the cold splendor of a distant star, but the
   warmth of a heart which is near us, a flame burning in the soul
   of believers and keeping alive their consciences. Putting aside
   certain opinions, which, honored at the moment, may possibly be
   abandoned to-morrow, criticism had hoped to effect a complete
   demolition of the conception of Christ, but what criticism
   really demolished was merely irrelevant matter. The figure of
   Christ, after all the onslaughts of criticism, now stands forth
   more pure and divine than ever and compels our adoration.

    (401)


                       CHRIST, THE INDEFATIGABLE

From the _Catholic World_ we clip Cornelius Clifford’s sonnet on
“The Indefatigable Christ”:

    Go where thou wilt, His heart shalt find thee out;
      Be thou in quest of wealth, or power, or fame.
      Above life’s tumult shall He call thy name;
    His care shall compass thee with grief about;
    And thou shalt know Him in thine hours of doubt,
      When faith shall pierce thy darkness like a flame,
      O dull of sense to Time’s imperious claim,
    His love shall prove thy rainfall after drought!

    For He shall come in many a blinding shower
      To dye thy sick leaves to a healthier hue,
    Till the scant years of youth’s once ample dower
      Requicken with late fruitage rare to view;
    Yea, He must shape thee by thine own heart’s power,
      And fashion all this ruined life anew.

    (402)


                            CHRIST THE LAMB

The figure of a lamb slain dominates the whole aspect of the religion
of redemption. Nature and grace seem to blend in harmonious echoes of
this ideal presentation.

   High up on the old German church of Werden is carved the image
   of a lamb, concerning which the villagers tell this story. Many
   years ago, a mason was at work on the portion of wall where now
   this figure stands, when the cord by which his plank seat was
   suspended snapt, and he was hurled down to what seemed instant
   death, for masses of rough stone lay thick on the ground below,
   the building being under repair. He arose unhurt, for there
   among the stone-heaps a little lamb had been nibbling at scanty
   tufts of herbage, and on this animal he had fallen safe and
   softly, while the lamb lay crusht to death. The man so strangely
   saved had the monument erected in grateful, lasting memory of
   his deliverance from a cruel death, and of the innocent creature
   to whom he owed it. (Text.)

    (403)


                           CHRIST THE LEADER

Mrs. A. E. Hawkins sings of “The March of Life” in these lines:

    Sometimes the order comes to “Forward march!”
      And falling into line my step I keep
    Beside my comrades, o’er the toilsome road,
      Nor think of rest or sleep.

    Then suddenly the order comes to “Halt!”
      And steadily I plant my feet and stand,
    I know not why or wherefore--I can trust
      The Captain in command.

           *       *       *       *       *

    But suddenly the bugle sounds, “To arms!”
      I gird my armor on, and join the fray,
    Following my Leader through the battle-smoke
      Until we win the day.

    For well I know that, march and battle o’er,
      Will come the great Commander’s grand review,
    And then the lights of home, and the reunion
      Of loyal hearts and true.

    (404)


                           CHRIST THE LIGHT

   In the life story of Helen Keller, a picture of the governess
   and her famous pupil is shown with the blind girl leaning her
   head on her teacher’s shoulder. This is a fair representation
   of the way in which life with its deeper and hidden meaning
   unfolded itself to the child. She drew so near to her teacher
   that her hand could touch eye, ear and lip. Before her teacher
   came to her, existence seemed like a dense fog and a great
   darkness, while her very soul cried out, Light, light! But when
   her education began, the way grew clearer and the truth plain as
   the “light of the teacher’s love shone upon her.”

   There are men who are spiritually blind. They are shipwrecked
   mariners at sea in a dense fog. They are without compass and
   have nothing stable from which they can take their bearings. But
   when Christ comes into their lives their heart-cry for light is
   answered. (Text.)

    (405)


                         CHRIST, THE REJECTED

At the exhibition of the Royal Academy, in London, the great canvas by
Sigismund Goetze, entitled “Despised and Rejected of Men,” has created
an artistic sensation. It is declared to be a “powerful and terribly
realistic presentment of Christ” in a modern setting, and is described
by a writer in _The Christian Commonwealth_ (London), as follows:

   In the center of the canvas is the Christ, standing on a
   pedestal, bound with ropes, while on either side passes the
   heedless crowd. A prominent figure is a richly vested priest,
   proudly conscious of the perfection of the ritual with which he
   is starving his higher life. Over the shoulder of the priest
   looks a stern-faced divine of a very different type. Bible in
   hand, he turns to look at the divine figure, but the onlooker is
   conscious that this stern preacher of the letter of the gospel
   has missed its spirit, and is as far astray as the priest whose
   ceremonial is to him anathema. The startled look on the face
   of the hospital nurse in the foreground is very realistic;
   so is the absorption of the man of science, so intent on the
   contents of his test-tube that he had not a glance for the
   Christ at his side. One of the most striking figures is that of
   the thoughtless beauty hurrying from one scene of pleasure to
   another; and spurning the sweet-faced little ragged child who
   is offering a bunch of violets. In rejecting the plea of the
   child we know that the proud woman is rejecting the Christ who
   has identified himself forever with the least of these little
   ones. The only person in the whole picture who has found time
   to pause is the mother seated on the steps of the pedestal with
   her baby in her arms, and we can not but feel that when she has
   ministered to the wants of her child she will spare a moment
   for the lover of little children who is so close to her. In the
   background stands an angel with bowed head, holding the cup
   which the world He loved to the death is still compelling the
   Christ to drink, while a cloud of angel faces look down upon the
   scene with wonder. As the visitor turns away he is haunted with
   the music of Stainer’s “Crucifixion,” “Is it nothing to you, all
   ye that pass by?” (Text.)

    (406)


                         CHRIST, THE SEARCHING

   A pastor tells of a talk he once had with an artist over the
   unsatisfactoriness of the pictured faces of Christ. In reply,
   the artist took up a crayon and rapidly sketched the picture of
   a woman with a broom in one hand and a lighted candle in the
   other, and a look of intense anxiety on her face.

   “It is a fine representation of the woman seeking for the lost
   bit of silver,” said the pastor.

   “You do not understand my picture,” was the quick response.
   “That is my conception of the Christ.”

   Ah, what a conception! A searching Christ! Seeking in dark,
   dusty corners for His own!--SOPHIE B. TITTERINGTON.

    (407)


   =Christ Transforming=--See CHANGES WROUGHT BY CHRIST.


                          CHRIST UNAVOIDABLE

   A learned native of Saxony all his life long has attacked Jesus
   and His gospel. But in his old days he doubted if he had been
   right, and yet fought against his doubts and against Christ.
   Often he would stop before a picture of Jesus, and say, “After
   all, thou wast only a man!” Then, “What dost thou say? that thou
   camest from above? How terribly thou eyest me! oh, thou art
   dreadful! But thou art only a man, after all.” He would go away,
   then with faltering step return and cry out, “What! art thou in
   reality the Son of God?” That scene was often renewed until the
   unhappy man, struck by paralysis, died. (Text.)

    (408)


                          CHRIST, UNION WITH

Christ is necessary to the Christian, but is not the obverse true also.
If both are bound up in the same life, can one be injured without
suffering to the other? This is the lesson which a recent writer finds
taught by the ivy:

   Some of the creeping plants, it is said, such as the ivy,
   entwine themselves so intimately with the masonry to which
   they cling that it would be unsafe to try to remove them--the
   building would be injured by their being torn away. And so our
   Lord Christ, with reverence, be it said, can not endure the loss
   of one of His members: He would be injured, mutilated, by only
   one of them being taken away, so close is the union between Him
   and them. (Text.)

    (409)


                      CHRIST’S EFFECT ON BARABBAS

A picture that may not be all imaginary is given by Margaret Ashmun in
this poem from _The New England Magazine_:

    And they released Barabbas, and he went
      Forth from his dungeon, joying in the grace
      Of life regained; yet, as he passed, a face
    Shone out from the dim corridor, and bent
    Its gaze upon him; questioning, intent.
      He knew that brow where anguish had its place,
      Those lips prophetic, sealed now for a space,
    Those eyes, deep-welled with awful, still content.
      The robber paused to marvel at the Man
    Whose death should serve for his; nor spoke aloud
      The foul jest in his throat. He stayed to scan
    Once more that visage calm; then, trembling, bowed
      With fear and harsh soul-harrowing grief, he ran
    And hid himself, sick-hearted, in the crowd.

    (410)


                             CHRIST’S FACE

   The hymn beginning:

    Jesus, Thy blood and righteousness
    My beauty are, my glorious dress:
    ’Midst flaming worlds in these arrayed,
    With joy shall I lift up my head,

   was written by Zinzendorf, whose culture and piety appear so
   conspicuously in the more than two thousand hymns which came
   from his pen. It was suggested by a picture in the Düseldorf
   Gallery, “Ecce Homo,” representing Jesus crowned with thorns.
   From the pathetic face above he turned to the legend beneath:
   “All this I have done for thee; what hast thou for me?” The
   vision and the question led him to adopt for his life motto: “I
   have but one passion, and that is He, and only He.” (Text.)

    (411)


   =Christ’s Fulness=--See FULNESS, CHRIST’S.


                             CHRIST’S LOVE

   Cyrus, the Persian, loved Lysander, one of his great generals,
   so much that, it is said, he exprest his readiness to melt down
   his throne of massive gold and give it to him.

But Christ, our King, left His throne for the love of the humblest
soul. (Text.)

    (412)


   =Christian Currents=--See CURRENTS OF LIFE.


   =Christian Experience=--See PARADOX.


                           CHRISTIAN FULNESS

   A Christian is an unfailing spiritual Niagara, not a cow-track
   pool to be drunk dry by a thirsty sunbeam.--F. F.
   SHANNON.

    (413)


                           CHRISTIAN HONESTY

   A Chinese Christian ferryman, poor in money but rich in faith,
   one night ferried a man over the river. After throwing the cash
   for his fare into the bottom of the boat, the passenger departed
   hurriedly. The Christian went to pick up the money and found a
   magnificent pair of gold bracelets which the man had dropt. He
   tied up his boat and tried to find his passenger, but he was
   lost in the crowd. According to the Chinese law, he could keep
   the bracelets, but he did not feel comfortable in doing this.
   He went to the preacher and together they took the bracelets to
   the mandarin, and later it was found that a wealthy Chinese had
   been robbed and the man who dropt the bracelets was a thief.
   The owner received them very thankfully and gave the mandarin a
   small reward for the finder. The incident imprest the official
   very much. “I have never seen or heard anything like this,” he
   said. “Your religion must be a true religion and your God a
   loving God, thus to influence a poor man to give up wealth for
   conscience sake.” He praised the boatman, who went to his poor,
   damp, mud hut on the bank of the river with a contented mind.

    (414)


                         CHRISTIAN SPIRIT, THE

The King of Italy displayed a truly royal spirit when he went to the
earthquake region at Messina and Reggio, and personally assisted the
sufferers. An account in the press says of this:

   The King has made himself dear to all his subjects, especially
   to those in the earthquake zone, by his prompt and personal aid
   in times of disaster. This makes plausible a story told by his
   companions to-day, who say that as the royal pair and the crowd
   surrounding them made their way through the ruins a man pinned
   under a great block of stone and supposed to be dead raised his
   head, repeated the cries of acclaim and dropt back dead. (Text.)

    (415)


   =Christian, The, and Christ=--See CHRIST, UNION WITH.


   =Christian Travelers in Foreign Lands=--See SUNDAY DESECRATION BY
     CHRISTIANS.


                            CHRISTIAN UNITY

   The Rev. John Fawcett, D.D., wrote the hymn, “Blest be the tie
   that binds”--perhaps the noblest hymnic expression of Christian
   brotherhood; and the author is himself one of the best examples
   of its sentiment. Brought to God by the Methodists, under the
   ministry of Whitefield, he joined that body, and became later
   pastor of a Baptist church in Bradford, England, and finally was
   settled at Wainsgate. Receiving a call to succeed the celebrated
   Dr. Gill in London, he had his goods packed ready for removal,
   when his loving people gathered, weeping, to say farewell, which
   so touched him and his good wife that he said, “I will stay;
   you may unpack my goods, and we will live for the Lord lovingly
   together.” This experience, it was, which led the author to
   compose the now popular hymn. (Text.)

    (416)


                     CHRISTIANITY AND CIVILIZATION

   In Livingstonia, an industrial mission in Africa, an engineering
   feat was accomplished in bringing a supply of pure water a
   distance of three miles across a valley 300 feet deep. The
   natives did not believe the water could possibly travel. They
   thought the Europeans were deceiving them when they talked of
   water running down one hill and up another. The two or three
   preliminary tests did not succeed, and this increased the
   natives’ incredulity. But one afternoon in January, 1904, a
   nozzle was screwed on to a hydrant, and the engineering staff
   awaited results with certainty. The screw was turned and, true
   enough, the water had climbed over the hill, for a jet of it
   rose in the air amid cheers. Think of the enormous benefit
   Christian civilization is in the dark places of the earth.
   (Text.)

    (417)


   =Christianity and Survival=--See SOCIAL STRENGTH.


                      CHRISTIANITY AS A CIVILIZER

James Chalmers, the martyred missionary of New Guinea, said:

   I have had twenty-one years’ experience among the South Sea
   Islanders, and for at least nine years of my life I have lived
   with the savages of New Guinea. I have seen the semi-civilized
   and the uncivilized; I have lived with the Christian native,
   and I have lived, dined and slept with the cannibal. But I
   have never yet met a single man or woman, or a single people,
   that your civilization without Christianity has civilized.
   Wherever there has been the slightest spark of civilized life
   in the Southern Seas, it has been because the gospel has been
   preached there; and wherever you find in the island of New
   Guinea a friendly people, or a people that will welcome you,
   there the missionaries of the cross have been preaching Christ.
   (Text.)--_Missionary Review of the World._

    (418)


                      CHRISTIANITY, CRITICISM OF

   There is a humorous poem by John Godfrey Saxe about the four
   blind Hindus who went to see an elephant. They could not see
   the elephant, but they told what they had seen. One happened to
   lean against the elephant and declared it was much like a wall.
   Another got hold of his tail and described him as being like a
   rope. Another got his trunk and said he was like a serpent, and
   the fourth ran against his tusk and said he was shaped very much
   like a spear. The fact is that they had not seen the elephant at
   all.

So there are objectors who have never seen Christianity at all. They
have seen mere fragments. Their criticism is correspondingly worthless.

    (419)


                   CHRISTIANITY, EARLY INFLUENCE OF

   Let the temperature of a lake fall to the freezing-point;
   apply a piece of ice to it and see the radiating lines of
   crystallization shoot singing from that center of force in all
   directions, while other rays start from their thousand nodes of
   maximum intensity, until the whole surface of the water becomes
   a solid sheet of ice. Just so the Roman empires, east and west,
   were subjected to a superficial crystallization of Christianity
   started in Judea by Jesus Christ.--J. P. LESLEY, _The
   Forum_.

    (420)


                        CHRISTIANITY, EFFECT OF

The thoroughgoing effect of the Christian religion upon a black chief
of Africa is seen in the following account:

   When, after many provocations, the crisis came, and
   notwithstanding oft-repeated warnings, there was drunken
   violence and uproar, the good Khama wore a stern face which
   always meant fixt purpose. He went and saw with his own eyes how
   his laws were trampled on, and then he said: “You despise my
   laws because I am a black man. Well, if I am black, I am chief
   of my own country, and I rule here and shall maintain my laws.
   Go back to your own country. Take all that is yours, and go.
   If there is any other white man who does not like my laws, let
   him go, too. I am trying to lead my people to act according to
   the Word of God, which we have received from you white people,
   and you, white people, show them an example of wickedness such
   as we never knew. You know that some of my own brothers have
   learned to like the drink, and that I do not want them even to
   see it that they may forget the habit; and yet you not only
   bring it and offer it to them, but try to tempt me with it. I
   make an end of it to-day. Go, leave my town, and never come
   back!”--PIERSON, “The Miracles of Missions.”

    (421)


   =Christianity in the Home=--See FAMILY RELIGION.


                        CHRISTIANITY INVINCIBLE

   In a sawmill in Canada, while the head sawyer was eating his
   dinner, a big bear came and sat on the log ready for sawing, and
   began to eat the sawyer’s dinner. As the log moved up the saw
   gave him a slight rub; he growled and went on eating. Presently
   the saw gave him another dig and he turned round and hugged it,
   and there was a bear sawed in two.

This reminds us of the enemies of Christ trying to stop the work He
came to do. He uttered truths which cut them, but they continued in
their opposition. They have gone to their own place, but the gracious
work of Christ continues. (Text.)

    (422)


   =Christianity, Moral=--See MORAL SATISFACTION.


                   CHRISTIANITY, PRACTICAL PROOF OF

   An unbeliever confronted a converted Fiji cannibal chief,
   saying, “You are a great chief, and it is really a pity that you
   have been so foolish as to listen to the missionaries. Nobody
   believes any longer in that old book called the Bible, or in
   that story of Jesus Christ. They have all learned better, and I
   am sorry for you that you have been So foolish as to take it in.”

   The chief’s eyes flashed as he said: “Do you see that great
   stone over there? On that stone we smashed the heads of our
   victims to death. Do you see that native oven yonder? In that
   oven we roasted the human bodies for our great feasts. Now, if
   it hadn’t been for the good missionaries, and that old book and
   the love of Jesus Christ, which has changed us from savages into
   God’s children, you would never leave this spot. You have to
   thank God for the gospel, for without it we should have killed
   you, and roasted you in yonder oven, and have feasted upon you
   in no time.”

    (423)


   =Christianity, Reasonable=--See REASONABLE RELIGION.


                          CHRISTIANITY SHAMED

   Vessels from Christian lands that touched at the Hawaiian group
   first introduced there the damnable liquid fires of alcohol,
   and their licentious crews first made the harbors of Hawaii
   the hells of the most abandoned and shameless vice. Sin was
   literally bringing forth death.--PIERSON, “The Miracles
   of Missions.”

    (424)


                         CHRISTIANITY, SOCIAL

   Civilized man must often go a great distance for many of the
   things he needs. His wants are too diversified to be met within
   the small radius of his immediate dwelling-place. As heat and
   sunshine are unequally distributed over the earth, they produce
   differences of climate and consequently many varieties of
   vegetation. There is wheat in the temperate zones, cotton and
   rubber-plants of warmer regions. Some sections are also far
   poorer in useful rocks and minerals than others. Thus Holland
   has no building stone. Switzerland no coal and the United
   States much less sulfur than it needs. There must be a constant
   interchange of productions that each nation have its needs
   supplied.

   Paul tells us that each man is the recipient of spiritual gifts
   differing in kind and degree from that of another. But it is
   all of the same spirit and all are members of one body. The
   Christianity of the future will be a brotherhood; it will be
   social. (Text.)

    (425)


                   CHRISTIANITY SUCCEEDING BARBARISM

   Geologists say that the Bay of Naples is in reality the crater
   of an extinct volcano. In the cycles of ages past it was a
   great, deep, roaring pit of fire and burning lava. The fires
   subsided and the lava ceased to flow. The great sea overflowed
   it and now the calm waters smile back in sunshine by day and in
   starlight at evening. Christianity is a great calm sea that is
   gradually quenching and covering the old volcanoes and roaring
   pits of barbarism. (Text.)

    (426)


                       CHRISTIANITY, SUCCESS OF

Admiral Prevost gives this picture of the change wrought in the British
Columbia tribes by the Metlakahtla Mission:

   Peter Simpson had been chief of a cannibal tribe. Canoes
   were all drawn up on the beach on the Lord’s day, and not a
   sound was heard, save the hurrying of the whole population
   to the house of prayer. The admiral watched the incoming of
   throngs--here a notorious gambler, there a reclaimed drunkard,
   a lecherous leper, a defiant thief, a widow snatched from
   the jaws of infamy, a murderer who had first slain and then
   burned his own wife--all converts to Christ and children of
   God.--PIERSON, “The Miracles of Missions.”

    (427)


   =Christianity, Successful=--See CHURCH, SUCCESS OF.


                         CHRISTIANITY SUPERIOR

   Every strong man wants to know what his opponent can say. He
   covets criticism, asks for investigation, welcomes analysis and
   contrast. Christianity has won its greatest victory through
   comparative religion. If you can only get the man with an
   ox-cart to put his vehicle beside the new locomotive; if you can
   only get the tallow candle and the gas flame into contrast with
   the electric light; if you can only get Buddha and Confucius
   side by side with Jesus--that is all that can be asked. The
   stickler for a little fire and a tallow candle will have
   nothing to say after you open the curtain and let the sunshine
   in.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (428)


   =Christianity Traversing Heathenism=--See OPPORTUNITY IN THE ORIENT.


   =Christianity Vindicated=--See TRIUMPH OF CHRISTIANITY.


   =Christians, Dyspeptic=--See FOOD AND EXERCISE.


                               CHRISTMAS

    What angels sang on that first Christmas morn,
    “Good will to men,” “The Prince of Peace is born,”
    Breaks once again in benediction clear,
    Sure song of God, the climax of the year.

    Round, round the earth the blessed measures run,
    Strife sheathes the sword, a thousand think as one,
    Babes leap for joy, December hearts aglow
    Burn with the hopes they burned with long ago.

    Strain urges strain, benevolence is sped,
    Dives relents and Lazarus is fed.
    Mirth makes a laugh where sorrow made a sigh,
    Heart wakes to heart--the Seraphim are nigh.

    “Good will and peace,” the song is on the air,
    “Good will and peace,” I hear it everywhere--
    “Peace on the earth,” in purposes divine,
    “Good will to men”--and a good will to mine.

    Oh, friend unseen, no gift is in my power;
    Gold would be dross in this triumphant hour.
    Take, then, the strain the angels sing to me,
    “Good will and peace,” I send it all to thee.

    --L. O. WILLIAMS.

    (429)

       *       *       *       *       *

    Scattered snow along the hillside, white as springtime fleeces are,
    With the whiter wings above them and the glory-streaming star--
    Guiding-star across the housetops; never fear the shepherd’s felt
    Till they found the Babe in manger, where the kindly cattle knelt.

    Oh, the shepherds in Judea!--
      Do you think the shepherds know
      How the whole round earth is brightened
        In the ruddy Christmas glow?

    How the sighs are lost in laughter, and the laughter brings the tears,
    As the thoughts of men go seeking back across the darkling years,
    Till they find the wayside stable that the star-led wise men found,
    With the shepherds, mute, adoring, and the glory shining round!

    --MARY AUSTIN.

    (430)


                      CHRISTMAS ABSURDLY OBSERVED

There is danger, unless a discriminating intelligence preside, of
carrying otherwise proper observances to absurd lengths as shown in a
recent occurrence in Rochester:

   A unique Christmas party was given Christmas eve by Mrs. Louis
   E. Fuller, organist at Brick Church, at her home, No. 105 South
   Fitzhugh Street. The novel part of the affair was that it was
   given for Mrs. Fuller’s two pet cats, Limit and Sir Gobelin,
   and the five dinner guests were all cat-lovers, and each guest
   who came brought a gift for the two cats of their hostess. The
   presents were adapted to the amusement and decorative side
   of the cats’ lives. There were dainty ribbon collars with
   great satin bows, cunning little packages of catnip wrapt in
   tissue-paper and tied with ribbon, balls galore, tiny mechanical
   mice and teddy bears. The invitations were sent out in the name
   of the cats, and the place-cards were tiny cats, which served as
   souvenirs, being made of phosphorus and suitable for scratching
   matches. There was a Christmas tree, on which the gifts were
   hung.

    (431)


                          CHRISTMAS STAR, THE

   There once lived a family in the South whose rigid rule sent the
   children to bed at sundown and made them rise after daylight.
   One of the boys grew to the age of seven years before he ever
   saw the stars, and when he was carried out one dark night and
   caught his first glimpse of the glorious constellations, he
   exclaimed rapturously to his mother: “Look! Look! Did you ever
   see anything so beautiful?”

The return of Christmas brings into view the Star of Bethlehem. How
many human eyes have never yet seen this Star!

    (432)


   =Church and Business Men=--See BUSINESS MEN IN CHURCH.


   =Church and Working Men=--See CHRIST APPROVED.


   =Church Cheer=--See SUNSHINE IN THE CHURCH.


                        CHURCH, DEADNESS OF THE

Perhaps nothing is more common than a profession of spiritual life with
very feeble evidence of its existence.

   A preacher visiting an infirmary, guided through the institution
   by a member of the medical staff, described various cases as
   the two passed along: “Anemic condition,” “creeping paralysis,”
   “nervous dyspepsia,” “locomotor ataxia,” etc. Having passed
   through all the wards, the minister said, “I have known a church
   with just such people in it. It took six hundred members a whole
   year to bring eleven souls to confess Christ. The prayer-meeting
   was affected by creeping paralysis and four-fifths of the men
   seemed to be suffering from locomotor ataxia of the soul.” The
   doctor replied, “And I one day remember seeing a very beautiful
   engine at an exhibition, but it was on a table, not on rails.
   It was only four feet long and about two feet high, and when I
   asked the man in charge what it was for he said it was not for
   use in any way, but was simply on exhibition. And,” added the
   doctor, “I have seen ministers and churches just like that.”
   (Text.)

    (433)


   =Church-going Enforced=--See WORSHIP, ENFORCED.


                       CHURCH, GUIDANCE FOR THE

   There are no wrecks among the golden ships of the heavens, for a
   master hand keeps the movements of the fixt spheres in unison.
   An effort is being made to have unison among the movements of
   all ships at sea. The proposal is that the Eiffel tower be
   equipped with a wireless apparatus, powerful enough to send
   Hertzian waves completely round the world, that ships may not
   be wrecked by being confused as to the longitude. It is said
   that all ships in communication with Eiffel tower will harmonize
   in their movements. Noon and midnight will be indicated by a
   prearranged signal.

   The Church is a ship of state with its members as the crew.
   Each church is commanded to keep in constant and direct
   communication with the great Head of the Church, the high tower
   of righteousness. (Text.)

    (434)


   =Church Hospitality=--See HOSPITALITY IN CHURCH.


                         CHURCH INDISPENSABLE

   A man in his Gethsemane utters words that burn themselves into
   your memory in letters of fire. The personal experiences of
   one’s friends are sacred; sacred forever the events of the
   household, when grief and repentance lay healing hands like
   angels upon a broken life. But recently I saw with mine own
   eyes, and heard with mine own ears, and received a charge. The
   house was a mansion on an avenue, and the man was approaching
   threescore years and ten. Beside us was the coffin of his dead
   daughter. On the other side sat his chum, his closest friend.
   Suddenly the sorrowing man broke into speech, and this was the
   substance of his soliloquy: “There is nothing in these things.
   You and I have been living for a good time and success. We have
   gotten everything we could during the week. We have been good
   poker-players on Saturday night, we have spent our Sundays in
   the automobile and driving, and in social pleasures. We have
   put the club and the bank first, and my son has disgraced me
   with his shameless marriage, and my daughter is dead. I tell
   you,” he said, using his friend’s name, “there is only one
   place in which to bring up a family, and that is the Christian
   Church. There is only one way to use Sunday for children, and
   that is to take them to church. What with money, and wine, and
   poker, and pleasure, all day Sunday, and parties all Sunday
   night, my family has been ruined. People don’t know what the
   result of this kind of living will be until the end comes, but I
   know.”--N. D. HILLIS.

    (435)


                          CHURCH, JOINING THE

A physician meeting an evangelist said to him:

   “I believe in religion as much as you do, and I accept Christ as
   my Savior, but I will never join any church.”

   “Doctor, you are pension examiner.” “Yes.” “How many applicants
   for pensions have you examined?” “I do not know, but hundreds.”
   “Doctor, how many of these received a pension who had never
   joined the army?” “Not one, not one. My wife and I will unite
   with the Presbyterian Church.”

   They did. This man, seventy odd years old, who had never been at
   church once, became a devout Christian and died in the faith.
   (Text.)

    (436)


                      CHURCH, LIGHT AND STRENGTH

   Persia has well been called the land of “the Lion and the
   Sun.” The symbol of “the Lion and the Sun” originated in the
   days when the Zoroastrians were the inhabitants of the land.
   The sun, being the emblem of the fire-worshipers, was taken as
   their national badge. The lion was added later because Ali, the
   grandson of Mohammed, was called the “Lion of God.” The woman’s
   face in the sun was inserted some years later by one of the
   Persian kings as a tribute to his favorite wife.

What is the Church but the land of the Lion and the Sun, the Lion of
Judah; the Sun of righteousness? What is its content but the bride of
Christ?

    (437)


   =Church, Loyalty to=--See LOYALTY TO THE CHURCH.


                        CHURCH-MEMBERS, WORKING

   Henry Ward Beecher was once about to take a ride behind a horse
   which he had hired from a livery stable. He regarded the horse
   admiringly, and remarked: “That is a fine-looking animal. Is
   he as good as he looks?” The owner replied: “Mr. Beecher, that
   horse will work in any place you put him, and do all that
   any horse can do.” The preacher eyed the horse still more
   admiringly, and then remarked: “I wish to goodness he was a
   member of my church!” (Text.)--LOUIS ALBERT BANKS.

    (438)


                           CHURCH-MEMBERSHIP

   It is not enough to say that you can be a Christian outside of
   the Church; an occasional boy can be a scholar without going
   to school; an occasional vine can grow in a lane instead of
   a vineyard, and an occasional newsboy can sleep in a barrel,
   and survive, instead of a home. But don’t stand outside of the
   Church and then crawl out of your barrel, and later on ask
   for all the privileges of the household. Some men watched the
   great parade in 1865, and regretted that they had not been in
   the ranks for the grand review. And if you come to the end of
   your career, never having shown your colors nor had a part in
   the fight, you will never cease to feel the regret that you did
   not die on the battle-field, and were not carried home like the
   heroes upon their shield.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (439)


                          CHURCH, MISSION OF

In a sermon by Dr. James I. Vance in _The Christian Observer_, on
“The Harbor-light on the Church Spire,” he points out the mission of
the Church. He gives this as an illustration:

   Recently, while on a visit to the old historic, picturesque city
   of Charleston, on a Saturday afternoon, I was taken for a sail
   around the harbor and a short distance out to sea. A friend took
   me to the forward deck and pointing to a light that glowed above
   the city in the distance, said: “That light is in the spire of
   St. Philip’s church. It is the harbor-light of Charleston. The
   channel here is an eddy channel, deep but narrow, and every
   vessel that enters this harbor must steer by the light in St.
   Philip’s spire.”

   As I stood there in the deepening shadows, I began to think of
   the many vessels, great and small, which through the long years,
   had entered the port. Merchantmen and men-of-war, freighters and
   pleasure-boats, yachts and schooners and excursion steamers,
   ships of adventure and of exploration, rakish blockaders, boats
   stript to their decks, grim and threatening, with all the
   paraphernalia and munitions of war; and ships gay, with bunting
   flying, with music and laughter resounding, and with decks
   crowded with merry throngs of pleasure-seekers. For all, the
   light in the church spire shone to show them a safe port and to
   guide the ship to its desired haven.

   It seemed to me to tell the story of what the Church is for,
   to answer, in part at least, the question why Christ wanted
   a church. The light shining over Charleston harbor from St
   Philip’s spire, and far out to sea, is a picture of the mission
   of every church in the world.

   The mission of the Church is to shine the harbor-light. It is
   to illuminate the darkness and, through the gathering gloom, to
   point the true way. It is to show voyagers on the sea of life
   how to reach the true haven. It is to tell wanderers how to find
   their Father’s house. It is to guide the soul to God. It is to
   shine out the harbor-light, so that souls in the offing may
   reach, in safety, life’s true destination. (Text.)

    (440)


                          CHURCH, NEED OF THE

A message in the form of a letter from Monsignor Bonomelli was read
to the delegates attending the World Missionary Conference, held in
Edinburgh, June, 1910, part of which reads:

   All of you feel the need of a church, which may be the outward
   manifestation of your faith and religious feeling, the vigilant
   custodian now and here of Christian doctrine and tradition. It
   sustains and keeps alive religion and individual activity, in
   virtue of that strong power of suggestion, which collectively
   always exercises on the individual.

   “Sir,” exclaims Johnson, “it is a very dangerous thing for a man
   not to belong to any church!”

   And this is true. How many of us would fall a thousand times
   were it not for this support!

   From the various churches and religious denominations,
   into which you Christians are divided, there arises a new
   unifying element, a noble aspiration, restraining too great
   impulsiveness, leveling dividing barriers, and working for the
   realization of the one holy church through all the children of
   redemption.

    (441)


   =Church, Obligations to the=--See OBLIGATIONS TO THE CHURCH.


                          CHURCH ONLY A MEANS

   A church is like the steps leading in to a beautiful mansion,
   but you do not sit down on the steps, you do not set up a
   tent on the steps, you do not live on the steps--the steps
   lift you to the level of the warm room, the blazing winter’s
   fire, the bower of home that receives you out of the driving
   rain or pelting snow. All the ordinances of the Church are
   steps that lead to the house of character, adorned with all
   those rich treasures, named truth, gentleness, meekness and
   justice and sympathy. The Church is a hostelry in which man
   stops for a night on his journey home. The end of the Church is
   character.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (442)


                            CHURCH SERVICES

Dr. Donald Sage Mackay remarks on the effects on communities of neglect
of church attendance:

   One of the papers in New York has been making a personal
   examination into the political morals of a certain New England
   State. It has been alleged that politically that State is
   rotten, that its voters are regularly bought and sold at every
   election. A detailed description of each of the most corrupt
   towns in that State was given, and this was the appalling fact
   brought out: The worst towns (some of them with a few hundred
   inhabitants), where bribery was most persistent, where illegal
   liquor-selling was most rampant, where immorality was most
   flagrant, were those towns in which there was no resident
   minister and where no Christian service was regularly held. For
   instance, in one town known as “darkest Exeter,” there were
   twenty years ago six churches; four of them are in ruins to-day,
   two are occasionally used, but there is no resident minister.
   The result is “darkest Exeter”--a New England farming town, once
   peopled by the sturdy sons of the Pilgrim, heir to all the noble
   qualities of a sturdy race.--“The Religion of the Threshold.”

    (443)


                           CHURCH STATISTICS

   The statistics and charts belonging with this illustration are
   taken from Bulletin 103 of the United States “Bureau of the
   Census” “representing conditions as near as may be, at the close
   of the year 1906.”

   The general order or rank of the principal religious bodies in
   1906 with respect to organization is presented in Table No. 1.
   (See page 104.)

   The distribution of religious organizations by principal
   families and separate denominations in 1906, in comparison with
   similar figures for 1890, is given in Table No. 2. (See page
   105.)

   The seating capacity of the churches is given in Tables No. 3
   and No. 4. (See page 106.

  [Illustration: DIAGRAM 1--Distribution of communicants or members,
  by principal families or denominations, for continental United
  States: 1890 and 1906.]

   The value of church property, with gains by decades is shown in
   Tables No. 5 and No. 6. (See pages 107–108.)

   The charts here shown exhibit at a glance (1) the comparative
   strength of denominations or families for 1890 and 1906 and (2)
   the relative size of the church and the unchurched population.

   [Note.--The designation “not church-members” in diagram 2, p.
   104, represents the difference between the number reported as
   communicants or members and the total population; it embraces,
   therefore, children too young to become church-members, as
   well as that portion of the population which is eligible to
   church-membership, altho not affiliated with any religious
   denomination.]

   Of the total estimated population of continental United States
   in 1906, 39.1 per cent., or not quite two-fifths, were reported
   as church-members. The corresponding percentage for 1890 was
   32.7, or somewhat less than one-third, showing that the church
   has gained faster than the population 6.4 per cent.

    (444)


                        CHURCH, SUCCESS OF THE

   Mr. Beecher arose in his pulpit Sunday after Sunday for forty
   years with the invariable fortune of looking at a crowded
   congregation, tho the most eloquent political orator in the
   country can not draw the same people to hear him five times in
   succession. A country town of 3,000 people will support from
   five to ten churches when it will hardly pay the rent of an
   amusement hall. For centuries, against intellectual doubt and
   the weakness of the flesh, the Christian religion has more than
   held its own in Europe and America, and while the theater could
   attract only by a continually changing appeal to curiosity, the
   church has retained its power with slight change and with only
   enough flexibility to adjust its forms of government to the
   character of different people.--Kansas City _Times_.

    (445)

  [Illustration: DIAGRAM 2--Proportion of the population reported as
   Protestant, Roman Catholic, and “all other” church-members, and
   proportion not reported as church-members, for continental United
   States: 1890 and 1906.]


TABLE NO. 1--DENOMINATIONAL RANK. (See CHURCH STATISTICS.)

    ----------------------------------+---------------+---------------
                                      |               |   Rank in
           DENOMINATION               |   Number of   |  number of
                                      | organizations | organizations
    ----------------------------------+---------------+---------------
    Methodist bodies                  |    64,701     |       1
    Baptist bodies                    |    54,880     |       2
    Presbyterian bodies               |    15,506     |       3
    Lutheran bodies                   |    12,703     |       4
    Roman Catholic Church             |    12,482     |       5
    Disciples or Christians           |    10,942     |       6
    Protestant Episcopal Church       |     6,845     |       7
    Congregationalists                |     5,713     |       8
    United Brethren bodies            |     4,304     |       9
    Evangelical bodies                |     2,738     |      10
    Reformed bodies                   |     2,585     |      11
    Adventist bodies                  |     2,551     |      12
    Jewish congregations              |     1,769     |      13
    Christians (Christian Connection) |     1,379     |      14
    German Evangelical Synod of       |               |
      North America                   |     1,205     |      15
    Latter-day Saints                 |     1,184     |      16
    Friends                           |     1,147     |      17
    Dunkers or German Baptist         |               |
      Brethren                        |     1,097     |      18
    ----------------------------------+---------------+---------------


                              CHURCH, THE

Harriet McEwen Kimball puts into verse a hopeful view of the triumph of
the Church:

    Be patient! bide His time who will not tarry;
      A thousand years He measures as a day.
    All human plans, since human, may mis-carry;
      His, never; keep His counsel, watch and pray.
            Put up thy sword, He saith;
            Be faithful unto death.

    Since the first saints embraced His cross, and dying
      No earthly triumph saw, yet were content,
    On His dear Presence, tho unseen, relying,
      His holy Church has walked the way He went;
            Afflicted, destitute,
            And sore from head to foot.

    Thou yet shalt see her, all her trials ended,
      Robed as in garments woven white of flame,
    When He “by thousand thousand saints attended,”
      Their lifted foreheads burning with His name,
            Shall come to claim the rest
            Who wait His advent blest.

    She will be glorious; neither spot nor wrinkle
      To mar the beauty of her holiness,
    And all the nations which His blood shall sprinkle
      The bride and bridegroom shall alike confess;
            Forever one the twain;
            Forevermore their reign! (Text.)

    (446)


                          CHURCH, THE COUNTRY

J. S. Cheavens remembers the church in the country in a poem, of which
a part is here given:

    In pillar’d aisles of vast cathedrals old,
    Ablaze with splendor, garish gilt and gold,
    Where clouds of incense ever seemed to dwell,
    And rhythmic waves of music rose and fell--
    I’ve heard the priest, in pomp of vain attire,
    Prate ancient prayers that did no soul inspire,
    Nor reach God’s ear. Religion’s whited tomb,
    Appalling in its cold sepulchral gloom!

    How far removed by all vain rules of art,
    Yet deep enshrined within my loyal heart,
    Is that plain building, simple, unadorned,
    Loved by a few, altho by many scorned--
    Unknown by those who seek wealth, power or place,
    But very dear to those who seek His face--
    The Country Church! O holy, holy ground,
    For there the Lord Himself is sought and found!

    (447)


 TABLE NO. 2--DISTRIBUTION BY FAMILIES AND DENOMINATIONS. (See CHURCH
                             STATISTICS.)

    --------------------+-------+----------------------------------------------
                        |       |           RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS
                        |       +------------------+------------+--------------
                        |Number |                  |  Per cent  |Increase from
      DENOMINATION      |  of   |     Number       |distribution| 1890 to 1906
                        |bodies:+-------+----------+-----+------+------+-------
                        | 1906  | 1906  |   1890   | 1906| 1890 |Number| Per
                        |       |       |          |     |      |      | cent
    --------------------+-------+-------+----------+-----+------+------+-------
    All denominations   |  186  |212,230|[1]165,151|100.0|100.0 |47,079|  28.5
                        +=======+=======+==========+=====+======+======+=======
      Protestant bodies |  164  |195,618|   153,054| 92.2| 92.7 |42,564|  27.8
                        +-------+-------+----------+-----+------+------+-------
    Adventist           |    7  |  2,551|     1,757|  1.2|  1.1 |   794|   45.2
    Baptist             |   14  | 54,880|    42,909| 25.9| 26.0 |11,971|   27.9
    Christian (Christian|    1  |  1,379|     1,424|  0.6|  0.9 | [2]45| [2]3.2
      Connection)       |       |       |          |     |      |      |
    Church of Christ,   |    1  |    638|       221|  0.3|  0.1 |   417|  188.7
      Scientist         |       |       |          |     |      |      |
    Congregationalist   |    1  |  5,713|     4,868|  2.7|  2.9 |   845|   17.4
                        |       |       |          |     |      |      |
    Disciples or        |    2  | 10,942|     7,746|  5.2|  4.4 | 3,696|   51.0
      Christians        |       |       |          |     |      |      |
    Dunkers or German   |    4  |  1,097|       989|  0.5|  0.6 |   108|   10.9
      Baptist Brethern  |       |       |          |     |      |      |
    Evangelical bodies  |    2  |  2,738|     2,310|  1.3|  1.4 |   428|   18.5
    Friends             |    4  |  1,147|     1,056|  0.5|  0.6 |    91|    8.6
                        |       |       |          |     |      |      |
    German Evangelical  |    1  |  1,205|       870|  0.6|  0.5 |   335|   38.5
      Synod of N. A.    |       |       |          |     |      |      |
    Independent churches|    1  |  1,079|       155|  0.5|  0.1 |   924|  596.1
    Lutheran bodies     |   24  | 12,703|     8,595|  6.0|  5.2 | 4,108|   47.8
    Mennonite bodies    |   14  |    604|       550|  0.3|  0.3 |    54|    9.8
                        |       |       |          |     |      |      |
    Methodist bodies    |   15  | 64,701|    51,489| 30.5| 31.2 |13,212|   25.7
    Presbyterian bodies |   12  | 15,506|    13,471|  7.3|  8.2 | 2,035|   15.1
    Protestant          |    1  |  6,845|     5,018|  3.2|  3.0 | 1,827|   36.4
      Episcopal Church  |       |       |          |     |      |      |
    Reformed bodies     |    4  |  2,585|     2,181|  1.2|  1.3 |   404|   18.5
                        |       |       |          |     |      |      |
    Unitarians          |    1  |    461|       421|  0.2|  0.3 |    40|    9.5
    United Brethren     |    2  |  4,304|     4,526|  2.0|  2.7 |[2]222| [2]4.9
      bodies            |       |       |          |     |      |      |
    Universalists       |    1  |    846|       956|  0.4|  0.6 |[2]110|[2]11.5
    Other Protestant    |   52  |  3,694|     2,042|  1.7|  1.2 | 1,652|   80.9
      bodies            |       |       |          |     |      |      |
                        |       |       |          |     |      |      |
      Roman Catholic    |    1  | 12,482|    10,239|  5.9|  6.2 | 2,243|   21.9
        Church          |       |       |          |     |      |      |
      Jewish            |    1  |  1,769|       533|  0.8|  0.3 | 1,236|  231.9
        congregations   |       |       |          |     |      |      |
      Latter-day Saints |    2  |  1,184|       856|  0.6|  0.5 |   328|   38.3
      Eastern Orthodox  |    4  |    411|         2|  0.2|[3]   |   409| [4]
        Churches        |       |       |          |     |      |      |
      All other bodies  |   14  |    766|       467|  0.4|  0.3 |   299|   64.0
    --------------------+-------+-------+----------+-----+------+------+-------

[1] Exclusive of 26 organizations in Alaska.

[2] Decrease.

[3] Less than one-tenth of 1 per cent.

[4] Per cent not shown where base is less than 100.


                             CHURCH UNION

   If this world is ever taken for God and its sins overthrown it
   will be by the marching of all the hosts of God in solid column
   to attack. The sixteen kinds of Methodists will come under one
   wing, the ten kinds of Baptists must come under another wing,
   and the seven kinds of Presbyterians under still another wing.
   After all the branches of each denomination have united then
   the great denominations nearest of kin will unite, and this
   absorption shall go on until there shall be one great millennial
   church, divided only for convenience into geographical sections
   and as of old it was the “Church of Laodicea” and the “Church
   of Philadelphia,” and the “Church of Thyatira,” so it shall be
   the “Church of America” and the “Church of Europe,” and the
   “Church of Asia,” and the “Church of Africa,” and the “Church
   of Australia.” Of that world-wide Church there will be only one
   article of creed--Christ first, Christ last, and Christ forever.
   (Text.)--T. DEWITT TALMAGE, _Christian Union_.

    (448)

         TABLE NO. 3--SEATING CAPACITY OF THE CHURCHES (less a
          percentage not reporting.) (See CHURCH STATISTICS.)

    -+----------------+------------------------------------------------------
    D|ORGANIZATIONS   |  SEATING CAPACITY OF CHURCH EDIFICES REPORTED
    E|REPORTING SEATI-|
    N|NG CAPACITY OF  +---------------------+------------+-------------------
    O|CHURCH EDIFICES:|                     |  Per cent  |  Increase from
    M|      1906      |       Amount        |distribution|   1890 to 1906
    I|-------+--------+----------+----------+------+-----+----------+--------
    N|       |Per ct. |          |          |      |     |          |
    A|       |of total|          |          |      |     |          |
    T| Number|report- |   1906   |   1890   | 1906 | 1890|  Amount  |  Per
    I|       |ing     |          |          |      |     |          | cent
    O|       |church  |          |          |      |     |          |
    N|       |edifices|          |          |      |     |          |
    -+-------+--------+----------+----------+------+-----+----------+--------
    A|179,954|    97.3|58,536,830|43,560,063| 100.0|100.0|14,976,767|    34.4
     +=======+========+==========+==========+======+=====+==========+========
    B|167,884|    97.4|53,282,445|39,896,330|  91.0| 91.6|13,386,115|    33.6
     +-------+--------+----------+----------+------+-----+----------+--------
    C|  1,431|    98.4|   287,964|   190,748|   0.5|  0.4|    97,216|    51.0
    D| 48,042|    97.9|15,702,712|11,568,019|  26.8| 26.6| 4,134,693|    35.7
    E|  1,221|    98.6|   383,893|   347,697|   0.7|  0.8|    36,196|    10.4
    F|    245|    97.6|    81,823|     1,500|   0.1|([5])|    80,323| 5,354.9
    G|  5,244|    98.1| 1,794,997| 1,553,080|   3.1|  3.6|   241,917|    15.6
     |       |        |          |          |      |     |          |
    H|  8,702|    97.8| 2,776,044| 1,609,452|   4.7|  3.7| 1,166,592|    72.5
    I|    969|    98.8|   508,374|   414,036|   0.9|  1.0|    94,338|    22.8
    J|  2,461|    98.1|   659,391|   479,335|   1.1|  1.1|   180,056|    37.6
    K|  1,088|    99.4|   304,204|   302,218|   0.5|  0.7|     1,986|     0.7
     |       |        |          |          |      |     |          |
    L|  1,131|    99.6|   380,465|   245,781|   0.6|  0.6|   134,684|    54.8
    M|    741|    94.3|   213,096|    39,345|   0.4|  0.1|   173,751|   441.6
    N| 10,493|    98.1| 3,344,654| 2,205,635|   5.7|  5.1| 1,139,019|    51.6
    O|    497|    99.8|   171,381|   129,340|   0.3|  0.3|    42,041|    32.5
     |       |        |          |          |      |     |          |
    P| 56,577|    96.1|17,053,392|12,863,178|  29.1| 29.5| 4,190,214|    32.6
    Q| 13,942|    99.0| 4,892,819| 4,037,550|   8.4|  9.3|   855,269|    21.2
    R|  5,960|    99.4| 1,675,750| 1,336,752|   2.9|  3.1|   338,998|    25.4
    S|  2,472|    99.7|   990,654|   825,931|   1.7|  1.9|   164,723|    19.9
     |       |        |          |          |      |     |          |
    T|    401|    98.5|   159,917|   165,090|   0.3|  0.4|  [6]5,173|  [6]3.1
    U|  3,637|    94.4| 1,060,560|   991,138|   1.8|  2.3|    69,422|     7.0
    V|    718|    93.5|   220,222|   244,615|   0.4|  0.6| [6]24,393| [6]10.0
    W|  1,912|    97.6|   620,133|   345,890|   1.1|  0.8|   274,243|    79.3
     |       |        |          |          |      |     |          |
    X| 10,303|    95.8| 4,494,377| 3,370,482|   7.7|  7.7| 1,123,895|    33.3
    Y|    717|    95.2|   364,701|   139,234|   0.6|  0.3|   225,467|   161.9
    Z|    837|    99.1|   280,747|   122,892|   0.5|  0.3|   157,855|   128.5
    a|     75|    89.3|    38,995|       325|   0.1|([5])|    38,670|11,898.5
    b|    138|    69.0|    75,565|    30,800|   0.1|  0.1|    44,765|   145.3
    -+-------+--------+----------+----------+------+-----+----------+--------

DENOMINATIONS:

    A:   All denominations
    B: Protestant bodies
    C:   Adventist bodies
    D:   Baptist bodies
    E:   Christian (Christian Connection)
    F:   Church of Christ, Scientist
    G:   Congregationalists
    H:   Disciples or Christians
    I:   Dunkers or German Bapt. Brethren
    J:   Evangelical bodies
    K:   Friends
    L:   German Evangelical Synod of N. A.
    M:   Independent churches
    N:   Lutheran bodies
    O:   Mennonite bodies
    P:   Methodist bodies
    Q:   Presbyterian bodies
    R:   Protestant Episcopal Church
    S:   Reformed bodies
    T:   Unitarians
    U:   United Brethren bodies
    V:   Universalists
    W:   Other Protestant bodies
    X: Roman Catholic Church
    Y: Jewish congregations
    Z: Latter-day Saints
    a: Eastern Orthodox Churches
    b: All other bodies

[5] Less than one-tenth of 1 per cent.

[6] Decrease.


                TABLE NO. 4--SEATING CAPACITY--GAIN BY
                   DECADES. (See CHURCH STATISTICS.)


    ------+---------------++-----------------------------
          |               ||    SEATING CAPACITY OF
          |               ||      CHURCH EDIFICES
    YEAR  |  Population   |+---------------+-------------
          |               ||               |Per cent of
          |               ||    Amount     | population
    ------+---------------++---------------+-------------
    1906  | [7]84,246,252 ||    58,536,830 |      69.5
    1890  | [8]62,947,714 ||    43,560,063 |      69.2
    1880  |    50,155,783 ||     ([9])     |  ([9])
    1870  |    38,558,371 || [10]21,665,062 |      56.2
    1860  |    31,443,321 || [11]19,128,751 |      60.8
    1850  |    23,191,876 ||    14,234,825 |      61.4
    ------+---------------++---------------+-------------

[7] Estimated.

[8] Includes the population of Indian Territory and Indian reservations.

[9] Not reported.

[10] Reported as “sittings.”

[11] Reported as “accommodations.”


                        CHURCHES AND THE CROWD

   Jane Addams says that on a Sunday night in Chicago one-sixth
   of the entire population is packed into 466 places of
   entertainment. Churches? No--moving-picture shows! The churches
   on Sunday night in Chicago, and, we fear, in many other places,
   are not conspicuously crowded. The problem is this: If the
   Chicago churches had presented an up-to-date moving-picture
   show, instead of a sermon, would the crowd have followed
   the films? Inasmuch as the church admission is free and the
   theater admission is from five to twenty-five cents, it is
   a fair assumption that the churches would have been filled.
   Now, if the object of the Sunday-night service is primarily
   to reach the crowd on the street, and if, as has been shown,
   the moving-picture is a much more vivid and attractive way of
   reaching that crowd than is a sermon, why, in all seriousness,
   don’t churches give us the thrilling stories of the Old
   Testament, its beautiful tales of the New Testament, and its
   modern illustrations of Christian heroism in this and other
   lands, in the up-to-date form--in moving pictures? They may
   answer that they can not get hold of the films and the machine,
   but this answer is not a good answer. Excellent sacred pictures
   are shown in the present professional entertainments, and many
   illustrations of modern heroism, self-sacrifice, and virtue
   are in every program. Moreover, a demand for films for church
   use would enlarge the supply. Moving-picture machines are not
   expensive and can be easily operated. You can do it in your
   church. Why don’t you?--_Woman’s Home Companion._

    (449)


        TABLE NO. 5--CHURCH PROPERTY. (See CHURCH STATISTICS.)

    -+-------------+-----------------------------------------------------------
    D|ORGANIZATIONS|
    E| REPORTING   |
    N|   VALUE     |
    O| OF CHURCH   |        VALUE OF CHURCH PROPERTY REPORTED
    M|  PROPERTY   |
    I|  IN 1906    |
    N+-------+-----+-------------------------+------------+--------------------
    A|       |     |                         |  Per cent  |  Increase from
    T|       | Per |       Dollar Amount     |distribution|   1890 to 1906
    I|       |cent +-------------+-----------+------+-----+-----------+--------
    O| Number| of  |    1906     |    1890   | 1906 | 1890|   Dollar  |  Per
    N|       |total|             |           |      |     |   Amount  |  cent
    -+-------+-----+-------------+-----------+------+-----+-----------+--------
    A|186,132| 87.7|1,257,575,867|679,426,489| 100.0|100.0|578,149,378|    85.1
    =+=======+=====+=============+===========+======+=====+===========+========
    B|173,902| 89.9|  935,942,578|549,695,707|  74.4| 80.9|386,246,871|    70.3
    -+-------+-----+-------------+-----------+------+-----+-----------+--------
    C|  1,492| 58.5|    2,425,209|  1,236,345|   0.2|  0.2|  1,188,864|    96.2
    D| 49,339| 89.9|  139,842,656| 82,328,123|  11.1| 12.1| 57,514,533|    69.9
    E|  1,239| 89.8|    2,740,322|  1,775,202|   0.2|  0.3|    965,120|    54.4
    F|    401| 62.9|    8,806,441|     40,666|   0.7|([12])| 8,765,775|21,555.5
    G|  5,366| 93.9|   63,240,305| 43,335,437|   5.0|  6.4| 19,904,868|    45.9
     |       |     |             |           |      |     |           |
    H|  8,906| 81.4|   29,995,316| 12,206,038|   2.4|  1.8| 17,789,278|   145.7
    I|    974| 88.8|    2,802,532|  1,362,631|   0.2|  0.2|  1,439,901|   105.7
    J|  2,515| 91.9|    8,999,979|  4,785,680|   0.7|  0.7|  4,214,299|    48.1
    K|  1,097| 95.6|    3,857,451|  4,541,334|   0.3|  0.7|[13]683,883|[13]15.1
     |       |     |             |           |      |     |           |
    L|  1,137| 94.4|    9,376,402|  4,614,490|   0.7|  0.7|  4,761,912|   103.2
    M|    806| 74.7|    3,934,267|  1,486,000|   0.3|  0.2|  2,448,267|   164.8
    N| 10,779| 84.9|   74,826,389| 35,060,354|   6.0|  5.2| 39,766,035|   113.4
    O|    497| 82.3|    1,237,134|    643,800|   0.1|  0.1|    593,334|    92.2
     |       |     |             |           |      |     |           |
    P| 59,083| 91.3|  229,450,996|132,140,179|  18.2| 19.4| 97,310,817|    73.6
    Q| 14,161| 91.3|  150,189,446| 94,861,347|  11.9| 14.0| 55,328,099|    58.3
    R|  6,057| 88.5|  125,040,498| 81,219,117|   9.9| 12.0| 43,821,381|    54.0
    S|  2,477| 95.8|   30,648,247| 18,744,242|   2.4|  2.8| 11,904,005|    63.5
     |       |     |             |           |      |     |           |
    T|    406| 88.1|   14,263,277| 10,335,100|   1.1|  1.5|  3,928,177|    38.0
    U|  3,839| 89.2|    9,073,791|  4,937,583|   0.7|  0.7|  4,136,208|    83.8
    V|    779| 92.1|   10,575,656|  8,054,333|   0.8|  1.2|  2,521,323|    31.3
    W|  2,552| 69.1|   14,616,264|  5,987,706|   1.2|  0.9|  8,628,558|   144.1
     |       |     |             |           |      |     |           |
    X| 10,293| 82.5|  292,638,787|118,123,346|  23.3| 17.4|174,515,441|   147.7
    Y|    747| 42.2|   23,198,925|  9,754,275|   1.8|  1.4| 13,444,650|   137.8
    Z|    909| 76.8|    3,168,548|  1,051,791|   0.3|  0.2|  2,116,757|   201.3
    a|     89| 21.7|      964,791|     45,000|   0.1|([12])|   919,791| 2,044.0
    b|    192| 25.1|    1,662,238|    756,370|   0.1|  0.1|    905,868|   119.8
    -+-------+-----+-------------+-----------+------+-----+-----------+--------

DENOMINATIONS:

    A:   All denominations
    B: Protestant bodies
    C:   Adventist bodies
    D:   Baptist bodies
    E:   Christian (Christian Connection)
    F:   Church of Christ, Scientist
    G:   Congregationalists
    H:   Disciples or Christians
    I:   Dunkers or German Bapt. Brethren
    J:   Evangelical bodies
    K:   Friends
    L:   German Evangelical Synod of N. A.
    M:   Independent churches
    N:   Lutheran bodies
    O:   Mennonite bodies
    P:   Methodist bodies
    Q:   Presbyterian bodies
    R:   Protestant Episcopal Church
    S:   Reformed bodies
    T:   Unitarians
    U:   United Brethren bodies
    V:   Universalists
    W:   Other Protestant bodies
    X: Roman Catholic Church
    Y: Jewish congregations
    Z: Latter-day Saints
    a: Eastern Orthodox Churches
    b: All other bodies

[12] Less than one-tenth of 1 per cent.

[13] Decrease.


                            CHURCHES, DEAD

   There is a Scandinavian tradition which tells of seven parishes
   of the Northland that lie buried under snow and ice, but whose
   church-bells are heard ringing clearly.

May not churches ring their bells and maintain all the forms of life,
and yet lie buried under the snow and ice of death? (Text.)

    (450)


                 TABLE NO. 6--CHURCH PROPERTY--GAIN BY
                   DECADES. (See CHURCH STATISTICS.)

    --------+--------------------------------
    	|        VALUE OF CHURCH
            |       PROPERTY REPORTED
    --------+------------------+-------------
            |                  |  Per cent
     YEAR   |      Amount      | of increase
            |                  |  over value
            |                  | at preceding
            |                  |   census
    --------+------------------+-------------
    1906    |  $1,257,575,867  |     85.1
    1890    |     679,426,489  |     91.7
    1870    |     354,483,581  |    106.5
    1860    |     171,397,932  |     90.3
    1850    |      87,328,801  |    .....
    --------+------------------+-------------


                           CHURCHES, SELFISH

   Most churches are religious cisterns instead of spiritual
   reservoirs. A cistern has all the trenches dug, the pipes laid,
   the roofs shaped to catch the showers of the favoring sky, and
   the water runs into it to be dipped out by the owner or occupant
   of the building, for the purpose of consumption. A reservoir has
   streams running into it, but all its trenches are dug and pipes
   laid in order that the water shall flow away from it, for the
   purpose of distribution.--THEODORE S. HENDERSON.

    (451)


                            CIGARET SMOKING

   Cigaret smoking is the most dangerous form in which tobacco can
   be used, because combustion goes on so near the mouth that all
   the products of burning are drawn into the mouth without change
   and are absorbed by the blood-vessels and carried to the brain.
   In the pipe and cigar many of the products from burning are
   condensed in the stem of the pipe and body of the cigar, and
   never reach the mouth. In the cigaret these poison products,
   small in amount, are constantly taken by the blood-vessels of
   the mouth and affect the senses. The sight, the smell and the
   hearing are all diminished and enfeebled, later the power of
   reason and muscular control. No form of tobacco is so cumulative
   in its action as the products from cigaret smoking; the quantity
   is small, the absorption is more rapid, and the resistance
   by nature is less active. The cigaret-smoker is slowly and
   surely poisoning himself, and is largely unconscious of it. In
   the young the poisoning is very acute and active; in elderly
   persons it is less prominent, but that it is equally dangerous,
   in the effects on the nerves, on the brain and on the senses,
   enfeebling them and destroying their activity, is beyond all
   question. The pipe- or cigar-smoker may not seem much worse for
   his addiction, but the cigaret-smoker is always markedly damaged
   by it.--T. D. CROTHERS.

    (452)


                          CIRCULATION IMPEDED

The moral and spiritual circulation, the free action of life-forces in
character, may be checked and impeded as well as the physical forces,
as described below:

   From the experiments of Scharling, Gerlach, and others, it has
   been shown that appreciable quantities of carbonic acid gas
   are hourly exhaled by the skin. If this process of cutaneous
   respiration is absolutely interrupted, as by covering the
   skin with varnish, death follows very soon, the heart and
   lungs becoming gorged with blood, as in ordinary cases of
   asphyxiation. In ignorance of this physiological fact, certain
   monks in the middle ages gilded the skin of a young lad who
   was to represent an angel (angels being understood, it would
   seem, to have golden skin); but he did not live through the
   performance of the “mystery” or “morality” in which he had to
   play his angelic part. Even if the body be inclosed, all but the
   head, in a water-proof covering, asphyxiation follows. Some,
   indeed, present themselves in public gatherings, not within
   the walls of lunatic asylums, either, with the respiratory,
   circulatory, and perspiratory organs manifestly obstructed,
   and, in fact, with the whole economy of the body from head to
   foot hampered obviously to the eye by powder, paint, enamel,
   corset, tight gloves, tight shoes, and goodness knows what other
   contrivances for checking all the processes and movements for
   whose perfect freedom of action nature has carefully provided.
   These may, perhaps, be best explained as cases of reversion
   to the ways of savage progenitors.--R. A. PROCTOR,
   _Syndicate Letter_.

    (453)


                             CIRCUMSTANCES

Circumstances mold character, but character masters circumstances.
No true life anywhere needs despair because its surroundings are
uncongenial or depressing. A writer finds this lesson in the first
flowers of spring, of which he says:

   But among what uncongenial surroundings these new flowers have
   come! Gray, sunless skies, chilling winds, the frosts, the
   lingering traces of the snow--these are the things which the new
   flowers see with their opening eyes; courageous flowers indeed
   to creep forth into a wintry world like this!

If these flowers can brave the trials of the winds and cold and sullen
sky, and still smile upon the sun, so can human lives, however bare and
difficult their lot.

    (454)


                     CIRCUMSTANCES BEYOND CONTROL

   One of the strangest stories of false imprisonment comes from
   France. A woman was sentenced to imprisonment for life for
   having caused the death of her husband and brother. The three
   had lived together at Malaunay, near Rouen, in a cottage. The
   lower part of it was used as a shop. When the woman was sent
   to prison, other people occupied the shop, but the new tenants
   suffered, the man from fainting fits, his wife from nausea,
   from which she died. Another couple tried their fortune, but
   they, too, were overcome by the “spell of the accurst place,”
   as they supposed. They were subject to fainting and loss of
   memory. At last a scientific examination of the premises was
   made. Then it was found that adjoining the shop was a lime-kiln.
   In a wall dividing it from the cottage were many fissures, so
   that whenever lime was burned monoxide of carbon escaped into
   the inn. This was the secret of the deaths for which the woman
   was suffering. She was brought out of prison after six years of
   servitude.

While we should not put the blame for our sins on circumstances,
we should remember that much which we condemn as sin would, if we
understood it, be excused as due to circumstances that involve no blame.

    (455)


   =Circumstances, Making the Best of=--See CONSERVATION OF REMAINDERS.


                       CIRCUMSTANCES, MASTERY BY

   Genius levels mountains, spans rivers, causes wildernesses
   to blossom, links together with electric chains the ends of
   the earth. The gifted man cares not for difficulties; like a
   mountain torrent, he gains momentum from every obstacle; a
   master athlete, he throws the world. Masters of circumstance
   in many directions, but how soon we succumb to circumstance
   when it relates to character! He who is triumphantly strong
   in other directions is helpless here; he who heroically and
   magnificently succeeds in fortune ignobly fails in morals.
   He who successfully battles with circumstances to become a
   scholar is vanquished by fleshly desires; he who becomes rich
   in the teeth of circumstances is then mastered and degraded by
   his riches; he who surmounts circumstances to become great,
   immediately falls a victim to luxury and pride. Men make a grand
   fight with a circumstance in the kingdoms of nature and society,
   but a sorry light with circumstances as these menace the kingdom
   of the spirit; they fail most where it is exactly most desirable
   that they should succeed.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The
   Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (456)


                      CIRCUMSTANCES NOT DECISIVE

   The danger of circumstantial evidence is illustrated by the
   French trial of a maidservant for robbery of some forks from
   a citizen of Paris. At the trial the circumstances were so
   strong against her that she was found guilty, and was executed.
   Six months afterward the forks were found under an old roof,
   behind a heap of tiles, where a magpie used to go. When it was
   discovered that the innocent girl had been unjustly condemned,
   an annual mass was founded at St. John-en-Grese for the repose
   of her soul.--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and
   Lawyers.”

    (457)


                     CIRCUMSTANCES, SUPERIORITY TO

R. H. Haweis tells the following of a celebrated violinist:

   Leghorn received him with open arms, altho his appearance
   was marked by an amusing contretemps. He came on to the
   stage limping, having run a nail into his heel. At all times
   odd-looking, he, no doubt, looked all the more peculiar
   under these circumstances, and there was some tittering among
   the audience. Just as he began, the candles fell out of his
   desk--more laughter. He went on playing; the first string
   broke--more laughter. He played the rest of the concerto through
   on three strings, but the laughter now changed to vociferous
   applause at this feat. The beggarly elements seemed of little
   consequence to this magician. One or more strings, it was all
   the same to him; indeed, it is recorded that he seldom paused to
   mend his strings when they broke, which they not infrequently
   did.

    (458)


                  CIRCUMSTANCES, TAKING ADVANTAGE OF

A well-known lawyer related a good story about himself and his efforts
to correct the manners of his office boy:

   One morning not long ago, the young autocrat blew into the
   office, and, tossing his cap at a hook, exclaimed:

   “Say, Mr. Blank, there’s a ball-game down at the park to-day and
   I am going down.”

   Now, the attorney is not a hard-hearted man, and was willing the
   boy should go, but thought he would teach him a little lesson in
   good manners.

   “Jimmie,” he said, “that isn’t the way to ask a favor. Now, you
   come over here and sit down, and I’ll show you how to do it.”

   The boy took the office chair, and his employer picked up his
   cap and stept outside. He then opened the door softly, and
   holding the cap in his hand, said, quietly, to the small boy in
   the big chair:

   “Please, sir, there is a ball-game at the park to-day; if you
   can spare me I would like to get away for the afternoon.”

   In a flash the boy responded:

   “Why, certainly, Jimmie; and here is fifty cents to pay your way
   in.” (Text.)

    (459)


                      CITIZENSHIP IN THE KINGDOM

   In writing of the Polish women, one author tells how they
   perform a man’s labor of sowing, tilling and reaping in the
   field. Their work is preferred to that of men because it is
   better and cheaper. They work for German land-owners and receive
   free transportation by the government. Altho they are said to
   frequently marry Germans, they do not lose their identity,
   nationality or character.

   Every church-member should be a citizen of the kingdom of
   Heaven. He should make its interests his interests and identify
   himself so closely with Christ, and show forth His life so that
   all would know that his nationality was of heaven; and his
   character Christ-like. (Text.)

    (460)


                             CITY, A HOLY

   It would not be expected anywhere that New York would be called
   a holy city, and yet that is what it was recently called by a
   convert in one of its mission halls. A correspondent of the New
   York _Tribune_ gives an account of a meeting he attended
   on a recent Sunday evening in a gospel mission hall at No. 330
   Eighth Avenue. A man with a pronounced foreign accent told the
   story of his life at this meeting. At the age of eighteen, he
   said, shortly after his arrival at a German university, because
   of some fancied slight he was challenged to fight a duel with
   one of his fellow students. In self-defense he killed the man,
   and from that day had borne the sorrows of a homicide. Drink had
   the mastery over him and he was far gone in dissipation when
   he was shipped to Canada, where he still continued a life of
   dissipation. To improve his business chances he came to New York
   and took up residence in the Young Men’s Christian Association
   Building in Twenty-third Street. Said the speaker: “A good
   many talk about the wickedness of New York. I call it a holy
   city, because in that little room, No. 653, in the Young Men’s
   Christian Association Building, I lost the weight of sin which
   had been pressing my life out for years and entered a new life
   in which the past was blotted out.” Several months have passed
   and the speaker has been led into new evidences of divine favor
   and usefulness. This case illustrates the familiar fact that one
   can find what he is looking for almost anywhere, especially in a
   large city. If he is looking for a saloon or any form of evil he
   will have little trouble in finding it, but if he wants to find
   a church or some form of good, it will be found near at hand. A
   holy man is holy anywhere, and to him even New York is a holy
   city.--_Presbyterian Banner._

    (461)


   =City Children=--See CHILDREN AND GARDENS.


                        CITY, GROWTH OF A GREAT

   The growth of population in the area now covered by Greater New
   York is shown thus in _The Tribune_:

    1910      4,766,883
    1900      3,437,202
    1890      2,507,414
    1880      1,911,698
    1870      1,478,103
    1860      1,174,779
    1850        696,115
    1840        391,114
    1830        242,278
    1820        152,056
    1810        119,734
    1800         79,216
    1790         49,401

   The following interesting figures are given by the Washington
   correspondent of _The Times_:

  [Illustration]

   New York now has a population greater than many of the countries
   of the world, for instance, Australia in 1908 had within its
   borders 4,275,306 persons, exclusive of the aborigines, while
   Ireland (1909) had a population of 4,374,158. Bulgaria in 1908
   showed a census return of 4,158,409, and Denmark and Greece,
   respectively, had 2,659,000 and 2,632,000 subjects of their
   kings. Norway in the same year was populated by 2,350,786
   persons, and Switzerland by 3,559,000.

   The figures in the cut above exhibit fifty years of New York’s
   expansion.

The fifteen largest cities of the world, each having more than one
million population are as follows:

    London            7,537,196
    New York          4,766,883
    Paris             2,714,068
    Tokyo             2,085,160
    Berlin            2,040,148
    Chicago           1,698,575
    St. Petersburg    1,678,000
    Vienna            1,674,957
    Canton            1,600,000
    Peking            1,600,000
      (estimated)
    Moscow            1,359,254
    Philadelphia      1,293,697
    Constantinople    1,125,000
      (estimated)
    Osaka             1,117,151
    Calcutta          1,026,987
      and suburbs

    (462)


   =Cities and Atmospheric Impurities=--See SOOT.


   =Cities Due to Discoveries=--See DISCOVERY, BENEFITS FROM.


   =City versus Country=--See SOCIETY IS MAN’S PLACE.


   =Civic Pride=--See CHILDREN AND CIVIC SERVICE.


   =Civic Strength=--See GREATNESS, TRUE, OF A CITY.


                                CIVICS

   It is said that one day recently a committee from a certain
   college investigated the Jacob Riis Settlement on the East Side
   of New York and made the criticism that civics were not taught.
   “I’ll show you how I teach them,” said Riis. “I noticed that the
   Jews and Irish did not get on together, so I had a straight
   talk with the leaders and told them they must do something. In
   a short time this notice appeared on the bulletin board: ‘Come
   to the Meeting of the Young American Social and Political Club,
   Dennis O’Sullivan, President; Abraham Browsky, Vice-President.’
   That,” answered Riis, “is my way of teaching civics.” And it is
   a way we should not neglect to follow. (Text.)--_The American
   College._

    (463)


   =Civilization=--See KNOWLEDGE VALUES.


   =Civilization Advancing=--See ADVANCEMENT, RAPID.


                       CIVILIZED MAN AND SAVAGE

   A savage who had been shipwrecked in a river may note certain
   things which serve him as signs of danger in the future. But
   civilized man deliberately makes such signs; he sets up in
   advance of wreckage warning buoys, and builds lighthouses where
   he sees signs that such events may occur. A savage reads weather
   signs with great expertness; civilized man institutes a weather
   service by which signs are artificially secured and information
   is distributed in advance of the appearance of any signs that
   could be detected without special methods. A savage finds his
   way skilfully through a wilderness by reading certain obscure
   indications; civilized man builds a highway which shows the
   road to all. The savage learns to detect the signs of fire and
   thereby to invent methods of producing flame; civilized man
   invents permanent conditions for producing light and heat just
   whenever they are needed.--JOHN DEWEY, “How We Think.”

    (464)


                             CLAIM, GOD’S

   When the late Earl Cairns was a little boy he heard three words
   which made a memorable impression upon him, “God claims you.”
   Then came the question, “What am I going to do with the claim?”
   He answered, “I will own it, and give myself to God.” He went
   home and told his mother, “God claims me.” At school and college
   his motto was, “God claims me.” As a member of Parliament, and
   ultimately as lord chancellor, it was still, “God claims me.”
   When he was appointed lord chancellor he was teacher of a large
   Bible class, and his minister, thinking that now he would not
   have time to devote to that purpose, said to him, “I suppose you
   will now require to give up your class?” “No,” was the reply, “I
   will not; God claims me.” (Text.)

    (465)


   =Clamor versus Balance=--See CONFIDENCE.


                          CLASSICS, STUDY OF

   If I could have my way, every young man who is going to be a
   newspaper man, and who is not absolutely rebellious against it,
   should learn Greek and Latin after the good old fashion. I had
   rather take a young fellow who knows the Ajax of Sophocles, and
   who has read Tacitus, and can scan every ode of Horace; I would
   rather take him to report a prize-fight or a spelling-match,
   for instance, than to take one who has never had those
   advantages.--CHARLES A. DANA.

    (466)


                              CLEANLINESS

   At Minot’s Ledge lighthouse all “bright work” must be cleaned
   every morning--lens, lamps, etc. So also all inside copper
   pots and tin-pans. The inspector comes every three months
   unannounced, and is handed by the keeper a white linen towel or
   napkin, and he goes over these bright things. Then he enters the
   item in his diary: “Service napkin not soiled.”

A man should live such a cleanly moral life that nothing around him can
suffer pollution as he uses it. (Text.)

    (467)


   =Cleansing=--See PURITY OF ASSOCIATIONS.


   =Cleansing a Necessity=--See DISCIPLINE FROM CHANGE.


   =Cleansing by Agitation=--See DISCIPLINE FROM CHANGE.


                       CLEANSING, DIFFICULTY OF

It is impossible for the guilty soul to emancipate itself from
the consciousness of sin. Dr. Seedham-Green, in his work on “The
Sterilization of the Hands,” proves the absolute impossibility of
cleansing the hands from bacteria:

   Simple washing with soap and hot water, with use of sand or
   marble dust, however energetically done, does not materially
   diminish the number of microbes; the mechanical purification is
   practically useless. Turpentine, benzoline, xylol, alcoholic
   disinfection, and various antiseptics equally fail to render the
   hands surgically clean. (Text.)

    (468)


                        CLEANSING THE FOUNTAIN

   Sam P. Jones used to tell of a man down in the spring branch
   trying to clear the water, so that he could get a clear drink.
   This man was doing all he could to filter the water, when some
   friend called out to him: “Stranger, come up a little higher and
   run that hog out of that spring, and it will clear itself.”

Unless life’s sources are clean, it is of little use to labor with
external conduct.

    (469)


   =Climates, Different=--See ENVIRONMENT, CREATING OUR OWN.


   =Climbing=--See ASPIRATION; STEPS UPWARD.


                           CLINGING BY FAITH

   There is a little limpet that is found clinging to the rocks
   along the coast; if you crawl up stealthily and hit one a heavy
   blow, you may detach it; but after you have struck the rock it
   is almost impossible to loosen the grasp of another limpet.
   These little limpets are good for nothing but to cling; but
   they do that with an awful tenacity. That’s what limpets are
   for--simply to cling. Oh, that we just knew how to cling to
   God by faith--nothing more, nothing less.--BRADFORD V.
   BAUDER.

    (470)


                              CLUB WISDOM

   Recently a traveler in Scotland, standing upon a mountain cliff
   overlooking the sea, found himself in great danger. It seems
   that the gardener desired to beautify even the steep cliffs and
   precipices. Loading his double-barreled shot-gun with seeds of
   flowers and vines, he fired the seeds up into the crevices of
   the rocks.

   Not otherwise, for men and women who have a few moments for
   rest between hour, has life become dangerous. To-day, one
   can scarcely turn round the street corner without running
   into the president of some new culture club, who straightway
   empties into the victim two volleys of talk about some wisdom,
   old or new. The old shot-gun is less dangerous than the new
   club.--NEWELL DWIGHT HILLIS.

    (471)


                                 CLUES

Life would be simplified and made safe if men, like spiders, would
always allow their life plans to be dominated by the clue that comes
from above.

   A great principle never forgotten by the spider is that she
   must always spin behind her a thread that will enable her to
   find again the points that she has left; this serves at once
   as her guiding thread for return, and as the road on which she
   travels. A consequence of this rule is that the starting-point,
   the center of the first operations, must be at the top of the
   web, and often higher still, so as to dominate the whole. From
   this point the explorer lets herself down, suspended from her
   inseparable thread, balances herself, and if she does not find
   the sought-for point, climbs back along the thread which she
   absorbs in ascending. (Text.)--MAURICE KOECHLIN, _La
   Nature_.

    (472)


                         COCAINE RESTRICTIONS

   One of the best laws ever enacted in New York State is the bill
   just signed by Governor Hughes which declares any person having
   cocaine upon his person, unless secured upon the prescription
   of a physician, and having a certificate from the druggist
   from whom he purchased the drug, guilty of a felony. This new
   law, which is directed against men who financially profit by
   the diseased appetites of victims of cocaine, will, according
   to health and police officials, sound the death-knell of the
   promiscuous sale of the most deadly of drugs. Chief Inspector
   Fuller, of the New York Health Department, says: “With this
   law on the statute-books I can promise that with the staff of
   inspectors I have at my disposal I will wipe out this most
   vicious evil. The jails are yawning for these criminals who are
   making fiends out of the New York boys and girls. This law will
   make possible the placing of those criminals behind the prison
   bars. Many a mother and sister will to-day rejoice, upon reading
   of this new law. It will perhaps mean the saving of their boy
   or girl from death itself. No one is more pleased with this law
   than myself and my inspectors, who have been fighting night and
   day to suppress the evil.”--_Christian Work._

    (473)


   =Cocksureness=--See SELF-CENTERED.


                              COINCIDENCE

   From Czenstochowa, the Mecca of Polish pilgrims, comes a story
   of coincidences. A pilgrim went to one of the priests and
   complained that some thief had stolen his purse while he was
   in church, and asked for money. The priest replied that he had
   no money and that the best thing for the pilgrim to do was to
   try to find the thief. “I shall go into the church and steal
   money from somebody else,” said the pilgrim, “for I have nothing
   to go home with.” He went into the church and seeing a man in
   the crowd with a wallet on his back slipt his hand into it and
   pulled out his own stolen purse, with the exact sum he had left
   in it. He was so glad to find his money that he hurried off to
   tell the priest and the thief got away.

    (474)

   See CRIMINALS, TRACING.


                     COINCIDENCE AND SUPERSTITION

The German Emperor recently made an interesting presentation to the
Hohenzollern Museum. It consists of the “death-dice,” by the help of
which one of the Emperor’s ancestors decided a difficult case in the
seventeenth century. How they came to be known as the “death-dice” is
thus related by the London _Tatler_:

   A beautiful young girl had been murdered, and suspicion fell on
   two soldiers, Ralph and Alfred, who were rival suitors for her
   hand. As both prisoners denied their guilt, and even torture
   failed to exact a confession from either, Prince Frederick
   William, the Kaiser’s ancestor, decided to cut the Gordian knot
   with the dice-box. The two soldiers should throw for their
   lives, the loser to be executed as the murderer. The event was
   celebrated with great pomp and solemnity, and the Prince himself
   assisted at this appeal to divine intervention, as it was
   considered by everybody, including the accused themselves.

   Ralph was given the first throw, and he threw sixes, the highest
   number, and no doubt felt jubilant. The dice-box was then given
   to Alfred, who fell on his knees and prayed aloud: “Almighty
   God, thou knowest I am innocent. Protect me, I beseech thee!”
   Rising to his feet, he threw the dice with such force that one
   of them broke in two. The unbroken one showed six, the broken
   one also showed six on the larger portion, and the bit that had
   been split off showed one, giving a total of thirteen, or one
   more than the throw of Ralph. The whole audience thrilled with
   astonishment, while the Prince exclaimed, “God has spoken!”
   Ralph, regarding the miracle as a sign from heaven, confest his
   guilt, and was sentenced to death. (Text.)

    (475)


                        COINCIDENCE, REMARKABLE

   Shortly after Robert Louis Stevenson published his curious
   psychological story of transformation, a friend of mine, called
   Mr. Hyde, was in the north of London, and being anxious to
   get to a railway station, he took what he thought was a short
   cut, lost his way and found himself in a network of mean,
   evil-looking streets. Feeling rather nervous he was walking
   extremely fast, when suddenly out of an archway ran a child
   right between his legs. The child fell on the pavement, he
   tript over it, and trampled upon it. Being, of course, very
   much frightened and not a little hurt, it began to scream, and
   in a few seconds the whole street was full of rough people who
   kept pouring out of the houses like ants. They surrounded him
   and asked him his name. He was just about to give it, when he
   suddenly remembered the opening incident of Mr. Stevenson’s
   story. He was so filled with horror at having realized in his
   own person that terrible scene, and at having done accidentally
   what the Mr. Hyde of fiction had done with deliberate intent,
   that he ran away as fast as he could go. He was, however, very
   closely followed, and he finally took refuge in a surgery, the
   door of which happened to be open, where he explained to a
   young man, apparently an assistant, who happened to be there,
   exactly what had occurred. The crowd was induced to go away
   on his giving them a small sum of money, and as soon as the
   coast was clear he left. As he passed out, the name on the
   brass door-plate of the surgery caught his eye. It was “Mr.
   Jekyll.”--_Nineteenth Century._

    (476)


   =Colds=--See VITALITY, LOW.


   =Collection, Missionary=--See CROWNING CHRIST.


   =Collection, The=--See GENEROSITY, THOROUGHGOING.


                           COLLECTIVE LABOR

   A certain King of Scythia, wishing to make an enumeration of the
   inhabitants of his realm, required every man in his dominions
   to send him an arrow-head. The vast collection was officially
   counted, and then laid together in a sort of monumental pile.
   This primitive mode of census-taking suggested to Darius the
   idea of his cairn in his march through Thrace. Fixing upon a
   suitable spot near his camp, he commanded every soldier to bring
   a stone and place it on the pile. Of course, a vast mound arose
   commemorating the march and denoting, also, the countless number
   of soldiers that formed the expedition.

    (477)


   =College Men in Positions of Trust=--See TRAINING.


                         COLLEGE OR EXPERIENCE

The following dispatch from Washington recently appeared in the New
York _Sun_:

   Uncle Joe Cannon was in fine form to-day when he received
   twenty-five young men, representing the Intercollegiate League,
   now in session here. Uncle Joe complimented his callers on their
   advantages, but he told them that knowledge gained in college
   was of little value unless it was crossed by experience and
   courage.

   Years ago, the Speaker said that he received a degree in a law
   college in Indiana. He started to Chicago to make his fortune,
   accompanied by his diploma and $6. He was put off the train in
   central Illinois when his money gave out and that was why he
   wound up at Danville, instead of Chicago.

   Uncle Joe said that he hung up his diploma in his little law
   office and waited for clients. For six months he had little to
   do aside from looking at the diploma and twirling his thumbs.
   Finally, one day, in a fit of rage, he pulled down the diploma
   and destroyed it.

   “The diploma in itself was of no use to me,” said Uncle Joe. “I
   kept my courage, however, and by and by began to make my way in
   the world.”

    (478)


                      COLLEGE TRAINING, VALUE OF

Rev. W. F. Crafts says:

   I have examined the educational record of the seventy foremost
   men in American politics--cabinet officers, senators,
   congressmen, and governors of national reputation--and I find
   that thirty-seven of them are college graduates, that five more
   had a part of the college course but did not graduate, while
   only twenty-eight did not go to college at all. As not more
   than one young man in five hundred goes to college, and as this
   one five-hundredth of the young men furnish four-sevenths of
   our distinguished public officers, it appears that a collegian
   has seven hundred and fifty times as many chances of being an
   eminent governor or congressman as other young men.

    (479)

   See TRAINING.


   =Collegiate Ambition=--See MARGINS OF LIFE.


                         COLLISION DUE TO LIFE

   Men who never move, never run against anything; and when a man
   is thoroughly dead and utterly buried nothing ever runs against
   him. To be run against is a proof of existence and position;
   to run against something is a proof of motion.--_Christian
   Standard._

    (480)


   =Collision, Ways of Avoiding=--See PATHS, KEEPING ONE’S OWN.


                            COLOR-BLINDNESS

   The great cause of error is imperfect vision. One says, “It
   looks so to me,” and therefore he concludes that it is so. He
   acts as if it were so. And, if he is mistaken, it may be a
   fatal mistake. The color-blind engineer saw the red light, but
   it looked green to him. He thought it was a safety signal when
   it was a danger signal. He went on and wrecked the train. Was
   he to blame? Yes, for if he could not distinguish between red
   and green he had no business to run a locomotive. Like him is
   the man who, with his prismatic eye, sees certain dogmas in the
   Book which God has written. He has persuaded himself that this
   danger signal is not red, but green. He insists that it looks so
   to him. Is it so, therefore, and is he safe? When we hear men
   talk, as we often do, about how it looks to them, and what seems
   reasonable to them, we can not help thinking of that color-blind
   engineer who wrecked his train.

   But what can we do with these “evil” prismatic eyes of ours? We
   can not change them into clear and perfect lenses by a wish, or
   by one earnest effort. It takes an optician a long time to shape
   and polish a lens. And we must be willing to work patiently and
   hard to undo the wrong we have done. If there is any suspicion
   in our hearts that our eyes are “evil,” we must not rest a
   moment. We must test the matter at once by a close and prayerful
   study of the truth.--_The Interior._

    (481)


   =Color, Protective, in Animals=--See CONFORMITY.


                           COLORS AS EMBLEMS

   Colors are emblematic; and in the middle ages were always used
   by the illuminators and church artists with regard to their
   significance. Red, blue and yellow, or gold, the primary colors;
   red, signifying divine love; blue, truth and constancy; gold,
   divine glory; when united, are supposed to be good emblems of
   the Holy Trinity. White, signifying light, purity, perfect
   righteousness, is to be used by the Church from Christmas
   eve to the octave of the Epiphany, symbolizing the purity of
   the Infant Savior; but it is not to be used on St. Stephen’s
   day, Holy Innocents, or Conversion of St. Paul. White, in an
   illuminated text, may be represented by silver. It is also the
   color for Maundy Thursday, Trinity Sunday, baptism, confirmation
   and marriage. Violet is the ecclesiastical color for mourning;
   it signifies passion, suffering and humility; therefore,
   martyrs are sometimes clothed in it. It belongs to advent, Holy
   Innocents (unless that feast falls on Sunday), Septuagesima to
   Easter eve, Rogation days, and Ember weeks. Red, the symbol of
   divine love and illumination (as flame) belongs to Pentecost;
   and as the emblem of blood shed for the Feast of the Martyrs on
   Whitsuntide. Blue signifies truth and constancy; when sprinkled
   with gold stars it signifies heaven. It is not an ecclesiastical
   color, but (as symbolical of heaven or truth) forms a beautiful
   and significant ground for a text. Green, the emblem of eternal
   spring, hope, immortality and conquest, is used on all Sundays.
   Gold or yellow signifies glory, the goodness of God, faith;
   it should be used on texts only for the divine name. Dingy
   yellow signifies deceit. Black is used only on Good Friday.
   It is symbolical of death and extreme grief. It is used also
   at funerals, frequently combined with white. Purple signifies
   royalty, love, passion and suffering. It is the color often worn
   by martyrs as well as by kings. After His resurrection Christ
   is sometimes represented in a purple mantle, as the symbol of
   His kingly power. Violet and blue are the colors of penitence,
   signifying sorrow and constancy. Gray signifies mourning,
   humility, and innocence unjustly accused.--_The Decorator and
   Furnisher._

    (482)

   See EMBLEMS.


                           COLORS, SYMBOLIC

Havelock Ellis, writing in _Popular Science Monthly_, says:

   The classic world had clearly begun, as savages have begun
   everywhere, with an almost exclusive delight in red, even an
   almost exclusive attention to it, and for Homer, as for the
   Arabs, the rainbow was predominantly red; yellow had next been
   added to the attractive colors; very slowly the other colors of
   the spectrum began to win attention. Thus Democritus substituted
   green for yellow in the list of primary colors previously given
   by Empedocles. It was at a comparatively late period that blue
   and violet became interesting or even acquired definite names.
   The invasion of Christianity happened in time to join in this
   movement along the spectrum.

   Yellow became the color of jealousy, of envy, of treachery.
   Judas was painted in yellow garments, and in some countries
   Jews were compelled to be so drest. In France, in the sixteenth
   century, the doors of traitors and felons were daubed with
   yellow. In Spain, heretics who recanted were enjoined to wear a
   yellow cross as a penance, and the Inquisition required them to
   appear at public _autos da fé_ in penitential garments and
   carrying a yellow candle.

    (483)


   =Combination=--See UNION.


   =Comfort from Faith=--See KOREA, WORK AMONG WOMEN IN.


   =Commander, The, and His Men=--See DIFFICULTIES, OVERCOMING.


   =Commandment, The Greatest=--See LOVE AND LAW.


   =Commandments, The Ten=--See GUARDS OF THE SOUL.


   =Commerce and Missions=--See MISSIONS AND COMMERCE.


                          COMMON PROBLEM, THE

    The common problem, yours, mine, every one’s,
    Is--not to fancy what were fair in life
    Provided it could be--but, finding first
    What may be; then find how to make it fair
    Up to our means; a very different thing!

    --BROWNING.

    (484)


                             COMMON SENSE

    When drowning men for aid implore,
    Some people run along the shore,
      And weep and pray and hope.
    Till others with some common sense,
    Come like a blest providence,
      And throw a saving rope.

    --_Public Opinion._

    (485)

   Mr. John Clerk, an eminent Scotch counsel, was arguing at the
   bar of the House of Lords in a Scotch appeal, and turning his
   periods in the broadest Scotch, and after clinching a point,
   added, “That’s the whole thing in plain English, ma lorrdds.”
   Upon which Lord Eldon replied: “You mean in plain Scotch, Mr.
   Clerk.” The advocate readily retorted, “Nae maitter! in plain
   common sense, ma lords, and that’s the same in a’ languages, we
   ken weel eneuch.” (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities
   of Law and Lawyers.”

    (486)


                             COMMON THINGS

Common things have their use which often surpasses the intrinsic value
of precious, costly things.

   A rich nobleman was once showing a friend a great collection
   of precious stones whose value was almost beyond counting.
   There were diamonds and pearls and rubies, and gems from almost
   every country, and had been gathered by their possessor at the
   greatest labor and expense. “And yet,” he remarked, “they yield
   me no income.” His friend replied that he had two stones which
   had only cost him five pounds each, but which yielded him a very
   considerable annual income, and he led him down to the mill and
   pointed to two toiling gray millstones.

    (487)


   =Communication, Easy=--See SOCIAL PROGRESS.


                     COMMUNICATION IN FORMER DAYS

The progress of the world can be inferred from facts like the following:

   In 1798 the entire business of the Post-office Department was
   conducted by the Postmaster-General, one assistant, and one
   clerk. In 1833 it required forty-eight hours to convey news from
   Washington to Philadelphia. In 1834 New York Saturday papers
   were not received in Washington until the following Tuesday
   afternoon. In 1835 the mails were carried between Philadelphia
   and Pittsburg daily in four-horse coaches, two lines daily, one
   to go through in a little more than two days, the other in three
   and a half days. In 1833 a contractor named Reeside carried
   the mail between Philadelphia and New York, ninety miles, in
   six hours, making fifteen miles an hour. The railroad, as a
   factor in the mail service, did not have a beginning before
   1835. August 25 of this year the formal opening of the road
   between Washington and Baltimore took place. Amos Kendall,
   then Postmaster-General, at first objected to having the mails
   carried by rail over this road, since it would, as he feared,
   disarrange connections with existing lines of stages. In
   October, 1834, a writer in the Boston _Atlas_ says: “We
   left Philadelphia on the morning of the sixth in a railroad car,
   and reached Columbia, on the Susquehanna, at dusk--a distance
   of eighty-two miles.”--JOHN M. BISHOP, _Magazine of
   American History_.

    (488)


   =Communication of Disease=--See CONTAMINATION.


                       COMMUNICATION, PRIMITIVE

   Many explorers have commented on the speed with which news
   travels among savage tribes, says _Amateur Work_. A
   curious observation as to a possible solution of the problem
   of their methods has been made by the Rev. A. Rideout, who,
   as a missionary among the Basutos, has noticed their method
   of sending messages from village to village by means of a
   signal-drum or gourd. This gourd, covered with the dried and
   stretched skin of a kid, gives out a sound which travels and can
   be heard at distances from five to eight miles. The transmission
   and reception of messages on these drums is entrusted to special
   corps of signalers, some one of whom is always on duty, and who
   beat on the message in what is practically a Morse alphabet. On
   hearing the message, says Mr. Rideout, the signaler can always
   tell whether it is for his chief or for some distant village,
   and delivers it verbally or sends it on accordingly, and it is
   thus carried on with surprizing rapidity from one village to
   another, till it reaches its destination. All that took place in
   the Boer War, victories and reverses in the Transvaal and Orange
   Free State, were known to us by gourd-line message hours before
   the news ever reached us by field telegraph. The natives guarded
   the secret of their code carefully. To my knowledge, messages
   have been sent a thousand miles by means of it. This is probably
   one of the earliest forms of wireless telegraphy.

    (489)


                       COMMUNICATION, PSYCHICAL

   Having discovered that we are immersed in the ether, and that
   it responds instantly, and to untold distances to electric
   vibrations, the daring inventor said, if I can set the ether
   ajar with a certain kind of vibration by shooting up into
   it strong electric impulses, then I can plant yonder in the
   distance another instrument keyed to that particular kind
   of vibration, and it will pick out its own from the ether,
   quivering, as it is, with an infinite number of vibrations. Just
   as when you run the scale of the piano in a room, each object
   responds to its own note. When you touch D a certain lampshade
   will shiver in answer. That is its note. It knows its own
   vibration, and is silent to all others.

   This, then, is what is transpiring now among men. A code of
   signals being arranged, one here sends up his request or prayer
   into the heavens, speaks into space. The whole hemisphere
   of ether is set quivering. Another yonder, a thousand miles
   distant, picks out of space the syllables of that prayer, one
   by one, and then throws back through space the answer. Nothing
   so marvelous as this, so near spiritual conditions, has ever
   before entered the heart of man. It is not surprizing that the
   air is full of prophecies, dreams and visions. One says we
   will yet be able to carry in a pocket, like watches, little
   vibrators, so that we can communicate with our distant friends
   without wires or towers, or skilled operators, as readily as
   we take out our watch and tell the hour of the day. Others, in
   this prophetic madness, say we may yet learn the vibration of
   the planets, and fling off into space our “All hail” to Mars and
   Venus.--JAMES H. ECOB.

    (490)


   =Communion Between Man and Beast=--See KINDNESS TO ANIMALS.


                         COMMUNION NOT BARRED

   A board knocked from a dividing fence sometimes leads to
   pleasant associations, but they are possible with the boards
   all on. We can look over or through. And souls can thus,
   even without effort, live together while the bodies are kept
   apart. Fences, high and barbed, can not separate kindred
   spirits.--_United Presbyterian._

    (491)


   =Communion with God=--See GOD SURROUNDING THE SOUL.


   =Community’s Interests Before Personal Interests=--See
     CONVICTIONS, STRONG.


                           COMPANIONS, EVIL

   A farmer’s corn was destroyed by the cranes that fed in his
   field. Greatly annoyed, he declared that he would find a way
   out of the trouble. A net was set in which the cranes were
   snared. There was also a beautiful stork among them who had
   been visiting with the cranes, and had come to them from a
   neighboring roof.

   “Spare me,” plead the stork. “I am innocent; indeed I am. I
   never touched any of your belongings.”

   “That may be true,” answered the farmer; “but I find you among
   them and I judge you accordingly.”

   The only safe way is to keep out of bad company.

    (492)


   =Comparative Religion=--See CHRISTIANITY SUPERIOR.


                           COMPARATIVE, THE

Vernon L. Kellogg writes about an ant dragon that he once observed,
thus:

   He was an ugly little brute, squat and humpbacked, with sand
   sticking to his thinly haired body. But he was fierce-looking
   for all his diminutiveness. Remember again that whether a
   thing is big or little to you depends on whether you are big
   or little. This dragon of the sand-pit was little to us. He is
   terribly big to the ants.--“Insect Stories.”

    (493)


                           COMPARISONS, APT

   The Chinese call overdoing a thing, a hunchback making a bow.
   When a man values himself overmuch, they compare him to a
   rat falling into a scale and weighing itself.--_Chambers’s
   Journal._

    (494)


   =Compass=--See BIBLE.


                             COMPENSATION

   Judge Noah Davis, when asked by a company of American brother
   lawyers as to the comparative advantages of different periods
   of life, replied, with his usual calm simplicity of manner, as
   follows:

   “In the warm season of the year it is my delight to be in the
   country; and every pleasant evening while I am there I love to
   sit at the window and look upon some beautiful trees which grow
   near my house. The murmuring of the wind through the branches,
   the gentle play of the leaves, and the flickering of light
   upon them when the moon is up, fill me with an indescribable
   pleasure. As the autumn comes on, I feel very sad to see these
   leaves falling one by one; but when they are all gone, I find
   that they were only a screen before my eyes; for I experience a
   new and higher satisfaction as I gaze through the naked branches
   at the glorious stars beyond.” (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES,
   “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (495)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Mongolian wolves are not so dangerous as Siberian ones. The
   reason is that, unlike the Russians, the Mongols keep such poor
   sheepfolds that a wolf can help itself to a sheep whenever
   it likes, and so is seldom driven by hunger to attack a
   man.--JOHN C. LAMBERT, “Missionary Heroes in Asia.”

    (496)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A pioneer farmer found after a storm that the lightning had
   cracked the wall of his cistern and his water-supply had leaked
   away, but a gurgling sound showed that the same stroke had split
   a rock and opened a hidden spring of living water.--FRANKLIN
   NOBLE, “Sermons in Illustration.”

    (497)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The one man who escaped the terrible eruption of Mt. Pelée was
   a prisoner who was in the jail at the time of the volcanic
   disturbance. He never imagined anything had happened until he
   missed receiving his meals and the visit of his guard. Then,
   escaping from the prison, he found himself in a city where
   thousands lay dead. God shelters his children behind many a
   strange rock. A prisoner--and yet saved! (Text.)

    (498)


                        COMPENSATION IN TRIALS

   The difficulties which beset personal and family life are rich
   in compensation. We often speak of “keeping the wolf from the
   door,” and the majority find this a hard fight. What trouble the
   threatening animal gives us! If in the morning we are disposed
   for a little extra slumber, the ominous howl startles us from
   the pillow; if we are tempted to linger at the table, its fierce
   breathings at the threshold summon us straightway to duty; if we
   doze in the armchair, the gleaming eyes, the white teeth, the
   red throat at the window-pane, bring us to our feet. And yet how
   much the best of men, the most truly aristocratic families, owe
   to the wolf! Solicitude, fatigue, difficulty, danger, hunger,
   these are the true king-makers; and the misfortune with many
   rich families to-day is, that they are being gradually let down
   because they are losing sight of the wolf. The wolf not merely
   suckled Romulus; it suckles all kings of men. The wolf is not a
   wolf at all; it is an angel in wolves’ clothing, saving us from
   rust, sloth, effeminacy, cowardice, baseness, from a miserable
   superficiality of thought, life, and character.--W. L.
   WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (499)


                      COMPENSATIONS OF PROVIDENCE

    I met old, lean St. Francis in a dream
    Wading knee-deep through the ashes of his town,
    The souls that he was helping up to heaven
    Were burnt or wrung out of the writhing flesh.
    Said I, “When near a thousand are engulfed
    In sudden indiscriminate destruction,
    And half a million homeless are, I know,
    This rotten world most blackly is accurst.”

    “When heroes are as countless as the flames;
    When sympathy,” said he, “has opened wide
    A hundred million generous human hearts,
    I know this world is infinitely blest.”

    --RODMAN GILDER, _The Outlook_.

    (500)


                              COMPETITION

Much of the joy of life would vanish if we had no races to run, no
contests to engage in. The true spirit of competition is exprest in the
following rime:

    On Saturday, next Saturday, may I be there to greet
      Those sixteen jolly Englishmen a-tugging for the lead.
    And eight shall have the victory and eight must bear defeat;
      But what’s the odds since all have pluck--and that’s the thing we
        need.
    Oh, it’s rowing in a stern chase that makes you feel you’re dying.
      But it’s spurting, gaining, spurting that makes you think you’re
        flying;
        And it’s smiting the beginning, and it’s sweeping of it through
          Just for honor, not for pelf,
          And without a thought of self,
        For the glory of your color and the credit of your crew.
      And it’s “Easy all, you’ve passed the post,” and lo, you loose
        your grip,
    But not until the falling flag proclaims you’re at the “ship.” (Text.)

    --_London Punch._

    (501)


   =Competition, Self=--See ANXIETY, COST OF.


                         COMPLEXITY IN ORGANS

   The tufts of feathers which distinguish the short-eared and
   long-eared owls, and are developed still more imposingly in
   the great eagle owl of northern Europe, are, of course, no
   more ears than they are horns; but the true ears of the owls
   are most remarkable organs. The facial disk of feathers, which
   gives them their most characteristic appearance, serves as
   a kind of sounding-board or ear-trumpet to concentrate the
   slightest sounds and transmit them to the orifice of the true
   ear, which is concealed in the small feathers behind the eye.
   Even in the barn-owl, which possesses the least complicated
   arrangement of this kind, the orifice of the ear is covered by
   a remarkable flap of skin; while in the other species there are
   striking differences in the size and shape of this orifice and
   its covering flap on the two sides of the head. The exact way
   in which owls utilize this elaborately specialized apparatus
   has still to be discovered; but it is a natural inference that
   two ears of widely different structure must give the owls
   which possess them a power of localizing sound which is of the
   greatest use to them when hunting small creatures in the dark.
   It is, therefore, all the more surprizing that the barn-owl’s
   ears have not this difference of structure, altho the power
   of instantly locating the rustle of the running mouse must be
   almost indispensable. For catching small birds, which are the
   especial prey of the wood-owl, keenness of sight rather than of
   hearing must be necessary, since they are chiefly caught when
   at roost; and the large nocturnal eye is developed in most of
   the owls almost as remarkably as the ear. In the short-eared
   owl, which is a day-flying species, the eye is correspondingly
   reduced. It has also a far less conspicuous facial disk; and
   this might also seem to be naturally explained as a result of
   its diurnal habits, with the consequent reduction of the need
   for acute hearing, if it were not for the marked difference in
   the structure of its two ears, which is even greater than in the
   case of the wood-owl. In the study of such complex problems,
   we are soon forced to realize how inadequate is even the most
   helpful and fascinating of single clues. The equilibrium of
   nature is no simple thing, like the balance of a pair of scales;
   it more resembles the complicated equipoise of an aeroplane
   among air-currents playing in three dimensions.--London
   _Times_.

    (502)


                              COMPLIMENT

   Few have equalled Sir Joshua Reynolds in skill and graciousness
   of compliment. When he painted the portrait of Mrs. Siddons as
   the “Tragic Muse,” he wrought his name on the border of her
   robe, with the remark, “I can not lose this opportunity of
   sending my name to posterity on the hem of your garment.”

    (503)

       *       *       *       *       *

   During a visit once with Queen Victoria, who had sent for him to
   her palace, the poet Longfellow was seating himself in a waiting
   coach at the close of the royal interview, when a working man,
   hat in hand, approached, and asked:

   “Please, sir, yer honor, an’ are you Mr. Longfellow?” Said the
   poet, “I am Mr. Longfellow.” “An’ did you write ‘The Psalm of
   Life?’” continued the questioner. “I wrote the ‘Psalm of Life,’”
   was the answer. “An’ yer honor, would you be willing to take a
   working man by the hand?”

   Instantly Mr. Longfellow responded with a warm hand grip. In
   telling the story later the poet said, “I never in my life
   received a compliment that gave me greater satisfaction.”

    (504)

       *       *       *       *       *

   I recollect once standing in front of a bit of marble carved by
   Powers, a Vermonter, who had a matchless, instinctive love of
   art and perception of beauty. I said to an Italian standing with
   me, “Well, now, that seems to me to be perfection.” The answer
   was, “To be perfection”--shrugging his shoulders--“why, sir,
   that reminds you of Phidias!” as if to remind you of that Greek
   was a greater compliment than to be perfection.--WENDELL
   PHILLIPS.

    (505)


                        COMPLIMENTS, SPARING OF

   The first time I ever stood in the pulpit to preach was in
   the meeting-house of the ancient Connecticut town where I was
   brought up. That was a great day for our folks and all my old
   neighbors, you may depend. After benediction, when I passed
   out into the vestibule, I was the recipient there of many
   congratulatory expressions. Among my friends in the crowd was
   an aged deacon, a man in whom survived, to a rather remarkable
   degree, the original New England Puritan type, who had known
   me from the cradle, and to whom the elevation I had reached
   was as gratifying as it could possibly be to anybody. But
   when he saw the smile of favor focused on me there, and me, I
   dare say, appearing to bask somewhat in it, the dear old man
   took alarm. He was apprehensive of the consequences to that
   youngster. And so, taking me by the hand and wrestling down his
   natural feelings--he was ready to cry for joy--he said: “Well,
   Joseph, I hope you’ll live to preach a great deal better than
   that!”--JOSEPH H. TWITCHELL.

    (506)


   =Compositions Compared=--See EDUCATION NOT VICARIOUS.


                    COMPREHENSIVENESS IN EDUCATION

   “What are these boys studying Latin for?” said an English
   visitor at a manual-training school as he looked in upon a class
   reading Cæsar.

   “What did you study Latin for?” was my illogical but American
   response. “Why, I am a bachelor of arts?” was his prompt
   reply, with the air of one who had given a conclusive answer.
   “Perhaps these boys will be bachelors of arts by and by,”
   I added cheerfully. “Then, what in the world are they in a
   manual-training school for?” he exclaimed, with almost a
   sneer at my evident lack of acquaintance with the etiquette
   of educational values. I tried to explain my theory of an
   all-round education--and my practise of “putting the whole
   boy to school”--but he would not be convinced. He could not
   see the propriety of mixing utility and tool dexterity with
   culture--CALVIN M. WOODWARD, _Science_.

    (507)


                       COMPROMISES IN GRAVITIES

   All orbits, including the orbits of comets, are the result of
   compromises in gravities. Now you have got to get over the idea
   that because one body attracts another strongly it is likely to
   draw it smack into it. It doesn’t. I made an apparatus in my
   laboratory the other day to show my students about that.

   I fixt up a little gun capable of shooting a steel ball quite a
   distance up an inclined plate of glass. The ball shot upward and
   then rolled directly back into the muzzle of the gun time after
   time. That was to show what a comet would do if just merely shot
   out into space to be uninfluenced by any other heavenly bodies
   after it got a start.

   Then I put a powerful electric magnet under the plate of glass,
   quite a little distance away from the track of my steel ball.
   This time when it was shot upward instead of keeping on its
   straight path or swerving directly into the magnet, as some of
   my students expected it to do, it shot on past, curving its
   course toward the magnet, and then finally it swung around
   the magnet in very much the way the comet is swinging around
   the sun. On its return course it swung off in a new direction
   altogether. My students were quite delighted with the oval
   course taken by the steel ball. It was just such a course
   as they had seen mapped out for Halley’s visitor.--H.
   JACOBY, New York _Times_.

    (508)


   =Compulsion in Religion=--See MILITANT EVANGELISM.


                                CONCEIT

There are too many men who make the sentiment of this verse their creed:

    This is the burden of my song,
      I sing it day and night:
    Why are so many always wrong
      When I am always right?

    (509)

   See COMPARISONS, APT; SELF-FLATTERY.


                          CONCEIT OF OPINION

   When Lord Hardwicke’s marriage bill was in the House of
   Commons, Fox, afterward Lord Holland, saying that one clause
   gave unheard-of power to parents on the marriage of minors,
   proceeded to lay open the chicanery and jargon of the lawyers,
   and the pride of their mufti, and drew a most severe picture
   of the Chancellor under the application of the story of a
   gentlewoman at Salisbury, who, having a sore leg, sent for a
   country surgeon, who pronounced that it must be cut off. The
   gentlewoman, unwilling to submit to the operation, sent for
   another more merciful, who said he could save her leg without
   the least operation. The surgeons conferred. The ignorant one
   said: “I know it might be saved, but I have given my opinion; my
   character depends upon it, and we must carry it through.” The
   leg was cut off. (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of
   Law and Lawyers.”

    (510)


                             CONCENTRATION

   It has been told of a modern astronomer that one summer night,
   when he was withdrawing to his chamber, the brightness showed
   a phenomenon. He passed the whole night in observing it, and
   when they came to him early in the morning and found him in the
   same attitude, he said, like one who has been collecting his
   thoughts for a few moments:

   “It must be thus; but I will go to bed before it is too late.”
   He had gazed the entire night and was not aware of it.

    (511)

   See ABSORPTION, MENTAL.


                           CONCERT, LACK OF

   Crazy people never act together, says the superintendent
   of a large asylum for the insane, quoted in _The Medical
   Times_. “If one inmate attacks an attendant, as sometimes
   happens, the others would look upon it as no affair of theirs
   and simply watch it out. The moment we discovered two or more
   inmates working together we would know they were on the road to
   recovery.” It is on this account that there are so few concerted
   mutinies in insane asylums; so that the number of attendants
   does not have to be large.

    (512)


   =Conclusion, A Reasonable=--See ETHICAL PRINCIPLE.


                            CONDEMNED, THE

   “Vessels fitted unto destruction”--how many may be unconsciously
   so marked by their Maker! A vessel is condemned as unseaworthy;
   her sails are sold, her spars and rigging, and when all that can
   be moved is gone, the dismantled hulk is moored in some coaling
   station. There, black from stem to stern, with a great white
   number painted on her side, she floats until her timbers rot to
   pieces--

    Anchored forever--sea-lord once, and free--
    Fouled by the creeping weeds that work unseen,
    Lashed by the mocking winds that erst we braved,
    Dread we the coming of the Southern night.
    Stars that we tamed to guide our prows of old
    Laugh in their sky of purple tapestry--
    Ay, laugh: we are condemned of man to die! (Text.)

    --MARGARET GARDINER, _Century_.

    (513)


                             CONDESCENSION

   A learned counsel (Mr. Brougham, as some say), when the judges
   had retired for a few minutes in the midst of his argument,
   in which, from their interruptions and objections, he did not
   seem likely to be successful, went out of court, too, and on
   his return stated he had been drinking a pot of porter. Being
   asked whether he was not afraid that this beverage might dull
   his intellect, he replied: “That is just what I want it to do,
   to bring me down, if possible, to the level of their lordships’
   understanding. (Text.)--JAMES CROAKE, “Curiosities of
   Law and Lawyers.”

    (514)

   See GREATNESS; PERSONALITY, INFLUENCE OF.


   =Conditions Before the Advent of Missionaries=--See MISSIONARY WORK,
     VALUE OF.


   =Conditions Modify Rules=--See DEVOTION TO THE HELPLESS.


                      CONDITIONS SUGGEST COURSES

   During the last years of his life a brain disease, of which he
   had shown frequent symptoms, fastened its terrible hold upon
   Swift, and he became by turns an idiot and a madman. He died in
   1745, and when his will was opened it was found that he had left
   all his property to found St. Patrick’s asylum for lunatics and
   incurables. It stands to-day as the most suggestive monument
   of his peculiar genius.--WILLIAM J. LONG, “English
   Literature.”

    (515)


                          CONDUCT, CANONS OF

Coleridge lays down three canons of criticism in literature, which hold
equally in conduct and endeavor:

   First, What has the author attempted to do? Second, Is it worth
   doing? And, third, Has he done it well?

    (516)


                      CONDUCT, PAST, UNCONSIDERED

Paul’s doctrine, that he who offends in one point is guilty of the
whole law, is illustrated in this anecdote:

   A notary public was convicted of forgery and sentenced to be
   hanged; and being asked if he had anything to say why sentence
   of death should not be passed, remarked that it was very hard
   that he should be hanged just for one line, considering the
   thousands of harmless sheets he had written in the course of his
   life. (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and
   Lawyers.”

    (517)


                              CONFESSION

   One of the duties of the writer during the first days of his
   clerkship was to “lock up.” One morning in the very first week
   of his employment he found the door unlocked and a policeman
   standing guard. Had he forgotten to lock that door? A hasty
   survey revealed that nothing had been taken away, and the
   policeman was dismissed. Should he confess the delinquency?
   It was almost sure dismissal. But he resolved to make a clean
   breast of it, and when his employer came in later he told all
   the circumstances, and bravely admitted that he must have failed
   to lock the door. While making this confession, the policeman
   walked in, to report finding the door unlocked. But his report
   had been forestalled, and, with an injunction to be more careful
   in future, the matter was dismissed. The confession forestalling
   that report was all that saved dismissal. But that confession
   won the confidence of his employer, and won a higher trust and
   esteem than existed before. This is one of the first lessons to
   learn. Confess instantly a fault, a loss, a mistake, and it is
   half retrieved.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (518)

   See FALSEHOOD.

       *       *       *       *       *

   Among the hard-working Labrador fishermen was a rich man who
   had opprest them, but whom they believed to be strong enough to
   defy them. Dr. Wilfred Grenfell, the medical missionary, who is
   also a magistrate, went to the offender and told him that he
   must confess his sin and pay back to the fishermen a thousand
   dollars. He curst the missionary. At the next church service,
   the doctor announced that a sinful man would confess his sin
   that night. They couldn’t believe that the rich sinner would
   yield. At the evening service, Dr. Grenfell asked them to keep
   their seats while he went after the sinner. He found the man at
   a brother’s house on his knees in prayer, with all the family.

   “Prayer,” said the doctor, “is a good thing in its place, but it
   doesn’t ‘go’ here. Come with me.”

   He meekly went, and was led up the aisle, where all could see
   him, and, after the doctor had described the great sin of which
   he was guilty, he asked, “Did you do this thing?” “I did.” “You
   are an evil man of whom the people should beware?” “I am.” “You
   deserve the punishment of man and God?” “I do.”

   At the end of it all the doctor told the man that the good God
   would forgive him if he should ask in true faith and repentance,
   but that the people, being human, could not. For a whole year,
   he charged the people, they must not speak to that man; but if,
   at the end of that time, he had shown an honest disposition to
   mend his ways, they might take him to their hearts.

   The man finally paid the money and fled the place.

    (519)


                       CONFESSION NOT CONCLUSIVE

   Two men named Boven were convicted in a Vermont court, mainly
   upon their own confession, of the murder of a half-witted
   dependent brother-in-law. They even said that certain bones
   found were those of the supposed victim. But the brother-in-law
   was found alive and well in New Jersey, and returned in time to
   prevent the execution. He had fled for fear they would kill him.
   The bones were those of some animal. They (the Bovens) had been
   advised by some misjudging friends that, as they would certainly
   be convicted upon the circumstances proved, their only chance
   for life was by commutation of punishment, and this depended
   upon their making a penitential confession. These and many
   similar cases have satisfied English and American lawyers that
   confessions alone are unreliable as evidences of guilt. When it
   is known that one accused, especially one charged with a capital
   offense, intends to make a confession, it is the practise in
   our courts to delay the trial in order to give him ample time
   to decide whether or no he will pursue that course.--Boston
   _Globe_.

    (520)


                        CONFESSION, UNREPENTANT

   A sergeant was accused, once upon a time, by his brethren of the
   court, of having degraded their order by taking from a client a
   fee in copper, and on being solemnly arraigned for this offense
   in their common hall, it appears from the unwritten reports
   of the Court of Common Pleas, that he defended himself by the
   following plea of confession and avoidance: “I fully admit that
   I took a fee from the man in copper, and not one, but several,
   and not only in copper, but fees in silver; but I pledge my
   honor as a sergeant, that I never took a single fee from him in
   silver until I had got all his gold, and that I never took a
   fee from him in copper until I had got all his silver, and you
   don’t call that a degradation of our order!” (Text.)--CROAKE
   JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (521)


                              CONFESSIONS

The Rev. Jonathan Goforth gives some striking instances of the
confessions of Korean converts during a revival:

   A prominent Christian who had bought some property for the
   mission confest that he had only paid eighty yen for the
   property, but had charged the mission five hundred yen. He sold
   his land so as to make restitution.

   Another confest that he was proud and censorious, but this did
   not relieve him. A few days later he confest that he had stolen
   three dollars and a lamp. Still he failed to get peace. After a
   few more days of agony, he confest that during the war while he
   acted as manager of transport he had cheated the Japanese and
   Koreans out of two hundred yen. He made restitution and received
   blessing.

   The leader of a robber band with some of his followers was
   converted in the great spiritual movement. He confest his sin,
   then went to the magistrate and delivered himself up. The
   official was so astounded that he said: “We have no such law
   that we can condemn a man without an accuser. You may have your
   liberty.” Here the Spirit of God was more effective than police
   and detective force. They needed not either to spend a term in
   the reformatory, for they were made new men in Christ Jesus.

    (522)


                              CONFIDENCE

Confidence is well placed when it rests upon a proved experience.

   A traveler, following his guide amid the Alpine heights, reached
   a place where the path was narrowed by a jutting rock on one
   side and a terrible precipice on the other. The guide passed
   over, and holding on to the rock with one hand, extended the
   other over the precipice for the traveler to step upon it and
   so pass around the jutting rock. He hesitated, but the guide
   said, “That hand has never lost a man.” He stept on the hand and
   passed over safely.

    (523)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The medical missionary among the Afghans, Dr. T. L. Pennell, on
   one of his journeys came to a village across the border late at
   night. Many outlaws infested the village, but the chief to whose
   care he had entrusted himself took the precaution of putting his
   bed in the center of six of his men, fully armed, each of whom
   was to keep guard in turn. Dr. Pennell being very tired after
   a hard day’s work, soon fell sound asleep. This proved to be
   his safety. Some of the fanatical spirits wanted to kill him in
   sheer wantonness, but the others said, pointing to his prostrate
   form peacefully sleeping, “See, he has trusted himself entirely
   to our protection, and because he trusts us he is sleeping so
   soundly; therefore no harm must be done to him in our village.”
   His confidence disarmed their deadly impulse. (Text.)

    (524)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Two men were once standing by a building on which a little boy
   had climbed who was afraid to get down. Looking up at him, one
   man opened his arms and, with a kind voice, said: “Jump, my
   little fellow, and I will catch you.” But the boy shrank back
   and would not jump. Then the other man opened his arms and said:
   “Come, my boy, jump, and I will catch you.” Instantly the little
   face cleared, a smile chased away the tears, and with a rush
   he jumped and was safely caught in the outstretched arms. Why
   was the boy afraid of one man and willing to trust the other?
   Because the first man was a stranger and the second man was his
   father. He knew his father would not let him fall.

    (525)

       *       *       *       *       *

A story is told by Colonel William Conant Church, of the _Army and
Navy Journal_, which illustrates how unshaken was the President’s
confidence in Grant’s ability to march the army of the Potomac against
the army of northern Virginia and capture the stronghold of the
rebellion. The incident took place just before Grant established his
headquarters in the field.

When he called upon the Secretary of War, the latter said:

   “Well, General, I suppose you have left us enough men to
   garrison the forts strongly?”

   “No, I can’t do that,” was the General’s quiet reply.

   “Why not? Why not?” repeated the nervous Secretary.

   “Because I have already sent the men to the front, where they
   are needed more than in Washington.”

   “That won’t do,” said Stanton. “It’s contrary to my plans. I
   will order the men back.”

   Grant maintained a quiet determination, and replied:

   “I shall need the men there, and you can not order them back.”

   “Why not? Why not?” cried the Secretary.

   “I believe I rank the Secretary of War in this matter,” remarked
   Grant.

   “Very well, we will see the President,” sharply responded the
   Secretary.

   “That’s right; he ranks us both.”

   Going to the President, Secretary Stanton, turning to Grant,
   said:

   “General, state your case.”

   But the General calmly replied:

   “I have no case to state. I am satisfied as it is.”

   When Stanton had given his view of the matter, Lincoln
   crossed his legs, leaned back in his chair, and like the wise
   philosopher that he was, said:

   “Now, Mr. Secretary, you know we have been trying to manage this
   army for nearly three years, and you know we haven’t done much
   with it. We sent over the mountains and brought Mr. Grant, as
   Mrs. Grant calls him, to manage it for us, and now I guess we’d
   better let Mr. Grant have his own way.”

   The winter of 1863 was a trying time for General Grant. It was a
   winter of floods in the South, and a winter of discontent among
   the people of the North. He could not move his army, and many
   began the old cry after Donelson, “idle, incompetent, and unfit
   to command in an emergency,” and again arose a clamor for his
   removal. It was a season of false alarm and sensational rumors.

   But there were two men in the land from whence came words of
   cheer. One was listening quietly in a store in Cincinnati to a
   great deal of rambling and grumbling talk about the way General
   Grant was trying to take Vicksburg. When all others present had
   given vent to their feelings, this man said in a moderate tone:
   “I think he’ll take it. Yes, I know he’ll take it. ’Lis’ always
   did what he set out to do. ’Lis’ is my boy, and he won’t fail.”

   The other man who believed in General Grant was in the White
   House. He was too good to be unkind, and too wise and prudent to
   err. While men of large political influence were urging General
   Grant’s removal for the good of the country, the philosopher
   at the White House said: “I rather like the man; I think we’ll
   try him a little longer.” By these thirteen words the fate of
   Vicksburg was sealed.--Col. NICHOLAS SMITH, “Grant, the
   Man of Mystery.”

    (526)

       *       *       *       *       *

   When Alexander once was about to engage in battle with Darius,
   having completed his arrangements, he lay down to sleep. Next
   morning Tarmenio exprest surprize that he could sleep so soundly
   when such vast issues were impending. “You seem as calm,” said
   he, “as if you had had the battle and gained the victory.” “I
   have done so,” replied Alexander, “for I consider the whole work
   done when we have gained access to Darius and his forces, and
   find him ready to give us battle.” (Text.)

    (527)

   See ESSENTIALS; VERSATILITY.


   =Confidence in His Own Ability=--See VERSATILITY.


                           CONFIDENCE IN MEN

   If a man can invest his hundreds of thousands of dollars on the
   ocean or in distant countries, where men can not understand
   the documents we write, it shows that there is trust between
   man and man, buyers and sellers; and if there is trust between
   them it is because experience has created the probabilities
   of truthfulness in the actions of men and all the concordant
   circumstances. If men did not believe in the truth of men,
   they never would send to China, Japan or Mexico their great
   properties and interests, with no other guarantee than that
   the men are trustworthy. The shipmaster must be trustworthy,
   the officers of the government must be trustworthy, and that
   business goes on and increases the world over is a silent
   testimony that, bad as men do lie, they do not lie bad enough to
   separate man from man.--HENRY WARD BEECHER.

    (528)


                         CONFIDENCE, INSPIRING

In his reminiscences concerning his career, Mr. John D. Rockefeller
says this in regard to a critical epoch in his fortunes:

   I went to a bank president whom I knew, and who knew me. I
   remember perfectly how anxious I was to get that loan and to
   establish myself favorably with the banker. This gentleman
   was T. P. Handy, a sweet and gentle old man, well known as
   a highgrade, beautiful character. For fifty years he was
   interested in young men. He knew me as a boy in the Cleveland
   schools. I gave him all the particulars of our business,
   telling him frankly about our affairs--what we wanted to use
   the money for, etc., etc. I waited for the verdict with almost
   trembling eagerness.

   “How much do you want?” he said.

   “Two thousand dollars.”

   “All right, Mr. Rockefeller, you can have it,” he replied. “Just
   give me your own warehouse receipts; they’re good enough for me.”

   As I left that bank, my elation can hardly be imagined. I held
   up my head--think of it, a bank had trusted me for $2,000! I
   felt that I was now a man of importance in the community.

The confidence of the bank president in him and his business ventures
had strengthened his own appreciation and confidence. So each man
reacts on the other. (Text.)

    (529)


                          CONFIDENCE, LACK OF

   Admiral Dupont was once explaining to Farragut the reason why he
   failed to enter Charlestown harbor with his fleet of iron-clads.
   He gave this reason and that reason and the other reason; and
   Farragut remained silent until he had got through, and then
   said, “Ah, Dupont, there was one more reason.” “What is that?”
   “You didn’t believe you could do it.”

    (530)


                          CONFLICT, SPIRITUAL

   Upon the side of the great entrance-hall of the Royal Museum
   in Berlin is painted a colossal picture of Kaulbach’s. It
   represents the last battle between the Romans and the Huns,
   which decided the fate of European civilization. The spirits of
   the slain, fierce and restless as before, rise from their bodies
   and continue the battle in the air. In the shadowy combat the
   forces are led by Attila, “the scourge of God,” borne aloft upon
   a shield, and by Theodoric, the Roman chief, with sword in hand
   and the cross behind.

The vivid portraiture is a symbol of the battle waging, not so
much between brute forces as between the spirit of two opposing
civilizations for the mastery of the world.

    (531)


   =Conflict to Fellowship=--See ETERNAL, THE, AT HAND.


   =Conflicts of Nature=--See STRONG AND WEAK.


                              CONFORMITY

Paul’s method of being all things to all men suggests that a wise and
proper conformity to one’s surroundings, where it involves no sacrifice
of principle, may be as useful as the white hue of animals in arctic
regions described in this extract:

   Wherever all the world around is remarkably uniform in color
   and appearance, all the animals, birds, and insects alike
   necessarily disguise themselves in its prevailing tint to escape
   observation. It does not matter in the least whether they are
   predatory or defenseless, the hunters or the hunted; if they are
   to escape destruction or starvation, as the case may be, they
   must assume the hue of all the rest of nature about them. In the
   arctic snows, for example, all animals, without exception, must
   needs be snow-white. The polar bear, if he were brown or black,
   would immediately be observed among the unvaried ice-fields by
   his expected prey, and could never get a chance of approaching
   his quarry unperceived at close quarters. On the other hand,
   the arctic hare must equally be drest in a snow-white coat, or
   the arctic fox would too readily discover him and pounce down
   upon him off-hand; while conversely, the fox himself, if red or
   brown, could never creep upon the unwary hare without previous
   detection, which would defeat his purpose. For this reason, the
   ptarmigan and the willow-grouse become as white in winter as the
   vast snow-fields under which they burrow; the ermine changes
   his dusky summer coat for the expensive wintry suit beloved
   of British Themis; the snow-bunting acquires his milk-white
   plumage; and even the weasel assimilates himself more or less
   in hue to the unvarying garb of arctic nature. To be out of the
   fashion is there quite literally to be out of the world; no half
   measures will suit the stern decree of polar biology; strict
   compliance with the law of winter change is absolutely necessary
   to success in the struggle for existence. (Text.)--_Cornhill
   Magazine._

    (532)


   =Congenital Neurasthenics=--See INEBRIETY, INCURABLE.


   =Conjugal Rights=--See ROBBING JUSTIFIED.


                              CONNECTION

   You can get no water from your old pump. When you try you get
   only a painful wheezing. Pumps are not living things, but they,
   too, suffer exhaustion. Must you give it up, and dig a new well?
   Oh, no. The well is all right, and has given abundant and sweet
   water for a generation. You look it over, and find that the old
   leather valve is dry and worn out. Pour in a pitcher of water to
   wet it, and the wheezing is cured. Put in a new valve and the
   old pump is good for years to come. God’s supply of living water
   is abundant as ever. It is only your connection with it that
   failed.--FRANKLIN NOBLE, “Sermons in Illustration.”

    (533)


                            CONQUEST BY MAN

   These vehement elements, of air and water, demand to be wrestled
   with and patiently mastered, by the vigorous soul, in order
   that they may administer to our happiness. There is the wax.
   In the soul is the seal, designed to impress it. There are the
   materials, upon which and with which the spirit is to operate.
   But no implements, even, are given it for its use. It must forge
   them, as it wants them. They are not found ready fashioned
   to the hand, as ornamental stones are, in the caverns and
   rock-rifts. They must be conceived by our skill, and completed
   by our labor. But the moment we begin, all is ready for our
   progress.--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (534)


                         CONQUEST, COMMONPLACE

Even the conquest of the North Pole takes on an aspect of the
commonplace, especially after many years of hard work. The New York
_Times_ quotes this entry from Peary’s journal:

   The pole at last! The prize of three centuries, my dream and
   goal for twenty years, mine at last! I can not bring myself to
   realize it.

   It all seems so simple and commonplace. As Bartlett said when
   turning back, when speaking of his being in these exclusive
   regions which no mortal had ever penetrated before:

   “It is just like every day!”

    (535)


   =Conquest, Peaceful=--See EMIGRATION, CONQUEST BY.


                           CONQUEST, SEVERE

   Death Valley is the most barren part of the Great American
   Desert. More men have died in its arid wastes than on any
   other equal area of the world’s surface, barring the great
   battle-fields. It lies, a great sink in the sandy plain, about
   250 miles north and east of Los Angeles, Cal., and within the
   boundaries of that State. The valley received its sinister
   name owing to the fact that in the early fifties a party of
   emigrants, some hundred and twenty in number, traveling overland
   by wagon from Salt Lake City, Utah, to Los Angeles, perished in
   its awful solitudes, barely a man escaping.

   In the _Wide World Magazine_ is given the story of a man
   who, alone and unaided, conquered Death Valley in the hottest
   month of the desert year. The tale of awful suffering endured by
   this man, H. W. Manton, of Rhyolite, Cal., is told for the first
   time in his own words.

   For almost a week Manton was lost in the heart of Death Valley.
   In three days he tramped eighty miles over sands so hot that he
   could scarcely walk on them, tho shod with heavy shoes. During
   those never-ending days he had no food, and but one drink of
   water.

   When he staggered up to Cub Lee’s Furnace Creek ranch, more dead
   than alive, his tongue was swollen to such a size that his mouth
   could no longer contain it. His lips and eyelids were cracked
   open; his clothing was in tatters, and his shoes were coated
   with a heavy incrustation of borax and other alkalines, which
   had eaten great holes in the leather.

   At first he could not drink, and the touch of water was as fire
   to his parched lips and tongue. Kind-hearted ranchmen and miners
   forced the precious fluid into his mouth with a straw, with a
   spoon--any way to get him revived. And eventually he spoke,
   telling the strange story of his crossing the dread pit; of
   how he had wandered therein for many days, with no companions
   save the lizards and the snakes of the barren sands.--Boston
   _Transcript_.

    (536)


                              CONSCIENCE

   There is an ingenious instrument used in testing the condition
   of railroads whereby every slight deviation in the width or
   levelness of the track, every defect of the rails, and even the
   quality of the steel and manufacture are registered.

Is not a well-instructed and carefully cultivated conscience just such
a dynograph?

    (537)

       *       *       *       *       *

“Conscience makes cowards of us all.” The following rather amusing
incident well illustrates this hackneyed observation of Shakespeare:

   On one of Landseer’s early visits to Scotland the great painter
   stopt at a village and took a great deal of notice of the dogs,
   jotting down rapidly sketches of them on a piece of paper.
   Next day, on resuming his journey, he was horrified to find
   dogs suspended from trees in all directions or drowning in the
   rivers, with stones around their necks. He stopt a weeping
   urchin, who was hurrying off with a pet pup in his arms, and
   learned to his dismay that he was supposed to be an excise
   officer who was taking notes of all the dogs he saw in order to
   prosecute the owners for unpaid taxes. (Text.)

    (538)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The religious ferment of the age made a tremendous impression on
   Bunyan’s sensitive imagination. He went to church occasionally,
   only to find himself wrapt in terrors and in torments by some
   fiery itinerant preacher; and he would rush violently away from
   church to forget his fears by joining in Sunday sports on the
   village green. As night came on the sports were forgotten, but
   the terrors returned, multiplied like the evil spirits of the
   parable. Visions of hell and the demons swarmed in his brain.
   He would groan aloud in his remorse, and even years afterward
   he bemoans the sins of his early life. When we look for them
   fearfully, expecting some shocking crimes and misdemeanors, we
   find that they consisted of playing ball on Sunday and swearing.
   The latter sin, sad to say, was begun by listening to his father
   cursing some obstinate kettle which refused to be tinkered,
   and it was perfected in the Parliamentary army. One day his
   terrible swearing scared a woman, “a very loose and ungodly
   wretch,” as he tells us, who reprimanded him for his profanity.
   The reproach of the poor woman went straight home, like the
   voice of a prophet. All his profanity left him; he hung down
   his head with shame. “I wished with all my heart,” he says,
   “that I might be a little child again, that my father might
   learn me to speak without this wicked way of swearing.” With
   characteristic vehemence Bunyan hurls himself upon a promise of
   Scripture, and instantly the reformation begins to work in his
   soul. He casts out the habit, root and branch, and finds to his
   astonishment that he can speak more freely and vigorously than
   before. Nothing is more characteristic of the man than this
   sudden seizing upon the text, which he had doubtless heard many
   times before, and being suddenly raised up or cast down by its
   influence.--WILLIAM J. LONG, “English Literature.”

    (539)

   See EYE, THE SEARCHING; MISSIONARY ACCOMPLISHMENTS.


                          CONSCIENCE A LIGHT

   The woodsman carries a box of safety matches protected against
   the rain and snow. In the arctic zone he knows that if he loses
   the match and the light he has lost life itself. Man can lose
   his health but not his conscience. But, if stumbling, the torch
   has fallen, and the light flamed low, snatch it up, and relight
   it, at the altars of God. So shall the light in thee wax into
   greater light, until conscience is a true pillar of cloud by
   day and a pillar of fire by night, guiding thee into the summer
   land where man needs no light of the lamp, neither light of the
   sun.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (540)


                         CONSCIENCE A MONITOR

   I remember when a boy my mother had a beautiful vase. I was
   charged not to touch it. My fingers, however, boy-like, itched
   to touch it. I frequently went around it, and peered behind it.
   I wondered if there might not be some painting on the bottom of
   it, as there was on the sides. In lifting ii up, one day, when
   I had grown bolder, it fell to the hearthstone and broke into a
   thousand pieces. I knew I had wounded the mother heart in that
   moment. She heard the crash and came in. I knew that I deserved
   punishment. But she only said, “My dear boy; do you see what
   you have done.” It was burned into my memory then what it cost
   to disobey law, and in all the sixty years that have elapsed
   since then, when I have looked upon the treasures of others, I
   have heard her voice saying to me, “Do you see what you have
   done?”--Bishop D. A. GOODSELL.

    (541)


                       CONSCIENCE A MORAL MENTOR

A writer speaks of a special form of the barometer, used generally by
travelers, in which air supplies the place of mercury as a measuring
medium. Speaking of its use, he says:

   As the pressure of the outside air varies does it rise and
   fall, and by a beautifully delicate apparatus this rising
   and falling is magnified and represented upon the dial. Such
   barometers are made small enough to be carried in the pocket,
   and are very useful for measuring the heights of mountains; but
   they are not quite so accurate as the mercurial barometer, and
   are therefore not used for rigidly scientific measurements; but
   for all ordinary purposes they are accurate enough, provided
   they are occasionally compared with a standard mercurial
   barometer, and adjusted by means of the watch-key axis provided
   for that purpose, and seen on the back of the instrument. They
   are sufficiently delicate to tell the traveler in a railway
   whether he is ascending or descending an incline, and will
   indicate the difference of height between the upper and lower
   rooms of a three-story house. The unseen air in the aneroid is
   a mark of the rise or fall in altitude of the possessor of the
   instrument.

Conscience plays a like part in morals. It is always with us and always
admonishes us of the varying moral altitudes to which we rise or fall.

    (542)


                          CONSCIENCE BENUMBED

   One of the most astonishing things in prison life is said
   to be the deficiency of conscience in criminals. Scenes of
   heartrending despair are rarely witnessed among them. Their
   sleep is broken by no uneasy dreams; on the contrary, it is easy
   and sound: they have also excellent appetites. They have a sense
   of self-righteousness, and feel, on the whole, that they have
   been wronged. Recently the newspapers told us of the execution
   of a grave-digger upon the Continent, who had been convicted of
   four murders, five robberies, eight cases of incendiarism, and
   other crimes. When he was informed that he would be hanged early
   next morning, he said that he deserved his fate, but he assured
   his judge that worse fellows than he were running about the
   world.

To have no consciousness of sin, no proper consciousness of it, is
no proof of our integrity; much more likely is it a proof that our
conscience has become benumbed and indurated by years of worldliness
and disobedience. (Text.)--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured
Sackcloth.”

    (543)


                         CONSCIENCE, CHRISTIAN

The following is told of Mr. Frank Crossley, a great promoter and
founder of London missionary work:

   Mr. Crossley was conscience incarnate. While yet a poor
   apprentice he had got free admission to a theater through the
   connivance of a fellow workman who kept the door; but when, as
   a renewed man, conscience demanded reparation for this sort of
   robbery, he reckoned up the entrance fee he had evaded, and
   sent the theater company sixty pounds.--PIERSON, “The
   Miracles of Missions.”

    (544)


                         CONSCIENCE, TROUBLED

   A quiet, bashful sort of a young fellow was making a call on a
   Capitol Hill girl one evening not so very long ago, when her
   father came into the parlor with his watch in his hand. It was
   about 9:30 o’clock. At the moment the young man was standing on
   a chair straightening a picture over the piano. The girl had
   asked him to fix it. As he turned, the old gentleman, a gruff,
   stout fellow, said:

   “Young man, do you know what time it is?”

   The bashful youth got off the chair nervously. “Yes, sir,” he
   replied. “I was just going.”

   He went into the hall without any delay and took his hat and
   coat. The girl’s father followed him. As the caller reached for
   the doorknob, the old gentleman again asked him if he knew what
   time it was.

   “Yes, sir,” was the youth’s reply. “Good-night!” And he left
   without waiting to put his coat on.

   After the door had closed the old gentleman turned to the girl.

   “What’s the matter with that fellow?” he asked. “My watch ran
   down this afternoon and I wanted him to tell me the time, so
   that I could set it.”--Denver _Post_.

    (545)


                             CONSCIOUSNESS

Is there any difference between the vibrations of sound on the tympanum
of the ear and those on the surface of the water? Science does not seem
to see a great difference, but Ruskin finds, in the differing effects,
an illustration of the mystery of consciousness:

   It is quite true that the tympanum of the ear vibrates under
   sound, and that the surface of the water in a ditch vibrates,
   too; but the ditch hears nothing for all that; and my hearing is
   still to me as blest a mystery as ever, and the interval between
   the ditch and me, quite as great. If the trembling sound in my
   ears was once of the marriage-bell which begun my happiness, and
   is now of the passing bell which ends it, the difference between
   those two sounds to me can not be counted by the number of
   concussions. There have been some curious speculations lately as
   to the conveyance of mental consciousness by “brain-waves.” What
   does it matter how it is conveyed? The consciousness itself is
   not a wave. It may be accompanied here or there by any quantity
   of quivers and shakes, up or down, of anything you can find in
   the universe that is shakeable--what is that to me? My friend is
   dead, and my--according to modern views--vibratory sorrow is not
   one whit less, or less mysterious, to me, than my old quiet one.

    (546)


                             CONSECRATION

   A Chinese preacher, whose wages were twenty-two dollars a month,
   refused the offer of the post of consul at fifty dollars, that
   he might be free to preach the gospel to his countrymen. His
   countrymen said of him: “There is no difference between him and
   the Book.” (Text.)

    (547)


                             CONSEQUENCES

   Mr. Justice Burroughs, of the Common Pleas, used to resort to
   the use of proverbs and parables in dealing with the juries.
   One day at _nisi prius_, much talk was made about a
   consequential issue in the case. He began to explain it to the
   jury thus: “Gentlemen of the jury, you have been told that the
   first is a consequential issue. Now, perhaps, you do not know
   what a consequential issue means; but I dare say you understand
   nine-pins. Well, then, if you deliver your bowl so as to strike
   the front pin in a particular direction, down go the rest. Just
   so it is with these counts. Knock down the first, and all the
   rest will go to the ground; that’s what we call a consequential
   issue. (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and
   Lawyers.”

    (548)


                       CONSEQUENCES, IRREPARABLE

The doctrine of the following verse (unidentified) is quite doubtful.
Is it not the hope of Christianity that men now broken by sin will yet,
by God’s healing grace, soar even higher than ever?

    I walked through the woodland meadows,
      Where sweet the thrushes sing;
    And I found on a bed of mosses
      A bird with a broken wing.
    I healed its wound, and each morning
      It sang its old sweet strain,
    But the bird with a broken pinion
      Never soared as high again.

    I found a young life broken
      By sin’s seductive art;
    And touched with a Christlike pity
      I took him to my heart.
    He lived with a noble purpose,
      And struggled not in vain;
    But the life that sin had stricken
      Never soared as high again.

    But the bird with a broken pinion
      Kept another from the snare;
    And the life that sin had stricken
      Raised another from despair.
    Each loss has its compensation,
      There is healing for every pain;
    But the bird with a broken pinion
      Never soars as high again. (Text.)

    (549)


                        CONSEQUENCES, UNNOTICED

   A little girl in Kansas has recently given the telegraph
   companies a vast amount of trouble in a peculiar way. Her
   daily duty was to herd a large drove of cattle on a range
   through which passed the telegraph lines. For weeks, some hours
   nearly every day, these lines absolutely failed to work, and
   the trouble seemed to be in the vicinity of where this girl
   herded her father’s cattle; but it was a long time before
   they discovered the cause. Finally, they found out that in
   order to get a better view of the herd the girl had driven
   railroad-spikes into a telegraph-pole, and whenever she got
   weary watching the cattle from the ground she would climb the
   pole and seat herself on a board across the wires and watch
   her herd from that lofty station. Whenever the board happened
   to be damp it destroyed the electric current and cut off all
   telegraphic communication between Denver and Kansas City.
   (Text.)--LOUIS ALBERT BANKS.

    (550)


                             CONSERVATION

   Under the iron law of conflict in the “survival of the fittest,”
   the world finds a shipwrecked brother in its path and removes
   him without ceremony and covers him with scorn and contempt.
   Christ reverses this iron law.

   Formerly when a war vessel discovered a derelict, the latter
   was immediately destroyed by dynamite. The government has
   now entered upon a new policy. Whenever it is possible, the
   abandoned vessel is towed into the nearest port. Recently two
   abandoned schooners were brought in, the value of the vessels
   and their cargo being estimated at more than sixty thousand
   dollars.

   When Jesus finds a human derelict He does not destroy him. He
   cleanses him and rehabilitates him, and makes him valuable in
   the kingdom. (Text.)

    (551)

       *       *       *       *       *

Christian treatment of the Indian not only has improved his character,
but has saved him from threatened extinction.

   The idea is prevalent that the red man is doomed to disappear
   from the earth at no distant day. But the census tables give
   no such indication. The first official count was taken about
   seventy years ago, and gave the number as 253,461. In 1880
   the figures had risen to 256,127, in 1900 to 272,073, and now
   (1909), by actual count, the reservations are found to contain
   284,000.

    (552)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A bundle of wood is placed in our kitchen stove to kindle the
   fire. It is consumed. Its ashes represent what the tree took
   from the soil. Its carbon goes up the chimney, restoring to
   the air what some tree took from the air. Nothing was lost.
   The earth received again what it originally gave. To the air
   was restored its original contribution of carbonic acid gas,
   which the leaf manufactured into wood. And so God has made a
   universe of perennial youth, where nothing is lost nor can be
   lost.--E. M. MCGUFFEY.

    (553)


                       CONSERVATION OF INFLUENCE

Dr. F. F. Shannon, commenting on the early death of a talented man,
says:

   “Such a man dead at 40?” you ask. “Why, to what purpose is this
   waste?” Well, a man can make a match, but it takes God to make
   a sun. We know the match must go out, the sun never does, tho
   his shining face is often hidden from our eye. And so the sun
   of this man’s genius--of any man’s genius--can never go out.
   The flame is burning yet--in a few hearts still in the flesh,
   and in countless glorified spirits before the throne. There is
   not enough wind, loosed or unloosed, in the vast caverns of
   the universe to blow out that flame, nor enough blackness in
   the untenanted halls of space to swallow up its light! Do you
   tell me that the God who is so strict in the economy of His
   universe as to refuse a throb of energy to be lost, or an atom
   to be wiped out of existence, or a few pieces of bread to perish
   in the desert, will allow that genius, which is the breath of
   His own being, to be wasted without contributing wealth to the
   world, to the universe, to God Himself!

    (554)


                      CONSERVATION OF REMAINDERS

   A man was in possession of a great farm. The abundant crops
   finally failed, and other calamities came, and at last the wife
   of the great landowner lost her reason. Nearly all had been
   lost, and the farmer was left with only a few feet of ground
   as his possession. I had not the courage to visit this man in
   his destitution. After a lapse of time, however, I went to his
   humble abode, and was amazed to see the little garden in the
   highest state of cultivation. And I exclaimed: “Why, how is
   this? How did you have the heart to do this, after you had lost
   all?”

   “Why, what would you have had me do?” was the reply. “This is
   all I had, and I tried to make the best of it.”

So it is for us to strengthen that which is left in the Church and in
ourselves as individuals.--OLIN A. CURTIS.

    (555)


                          CONSERVATISM, FALSE

   There stands the false conservative, anchored to the past.
   Whatever is, for him, is right and good. He is constitutionally
   opposed to change. Wagon-wheels make a rut an inch deep across
   the prairie, but when this man is thirty he is in a rut up to
   his eyebrows. When he dies, at seventy, you can truly say, that
   his image is truth lying at the bottom of a well. He loves his
   father’s house because it is old; he loves old tools; old laws;
   old creeds. He stands at his gate, like an angry soldier, waving
   his hands and shouting warnings to all who approach. He has
   one injunction for every boy starting out to make his fortune:
   “Watch your anchor, my son; don’t cast off your moorings”; as
   if any Columbus, who spent all his time throwing out anchors,
   could ever have crossed the sea! As if any world voyage could
   be made by a captain who never dared cast off his moorings! In
   the Arabian tale, when the sheik was lost in the desert, he
   took off the bridle, and committed the camel to God and his
   own instincts, trusting the beast to find its way to the water
   springs. But if the old sheik had been a false conservative, he
   would first of all have staked the camel down by a lariat, and
   then committed himself to God, like these church dignitaries
   and councils that stake the religious or political thinker
   down by a lariat, which they then label in a humorous moment,
   “liberty of thought,” and having made progress impossible, they
   commit themselves to the care of the God of progress.--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (556)


   =Conservatism Natural=--See PROGRESS.


                            CONSIDERATENESS

This incident is from a source not identified:

   A few days ago I was passing through a pretty, shady street,
   where some boys were playing at baseball. Among their number was
   a little lame fellow, seemingly about twelve years old--a pale,
   sickly-looking child, supported on two crutches, who evidently
   found much difficulty in walking, even with such assistance.

   The lame boy wished to join the game, for he did not seem to see
   how his infirmity would be in his own way, and how much it would
   hinder the progress of such an active sport as baseball.

   His companions, very good naturedly, tried to persuade him to
   stand at one side and let another take his place; and I was glad
   to notice that none of them hinted that he would be in the way,
   but that they all objected for fear he would hurt himself.

   “Why, Jimmy,” said one of them at last, “you can’t run, you
   know.”

   “Oh, hush!” said another--the tallest in the party; “never
   mind, I’ll run for him,” and he took his place by Jimmy’s side,
   prepared to act. “If you were like him,” he said, aside to the
   other boy, “you wouldn’t want to be told of it all the time.”

   As I passed on I thought to myself, “That boy is a true
   gentleman.”

    (557)

   See KINDNESS; SERVICE, INTERESTED.


   =Consideration for Others=--See OTHERS, CONSIDERATION FOR.


   =Consideration for Weakness=--See WEAKNESS, CONSIDERATION FOR.


                              CONSISTENCY

Those who walk with God are sure to exercise a powerful effect,
conscious or unconscious, upon their worldly friends and neighbors. It
is said of certain of the apostles that those who watched them “took
knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus.”

   A certain mill-owner was an infidel. He ran his mill seven days
   in the week, yet on Sundays he stopt it for a short time in the
   morning and again at noon. At length some one ventured to ask
   him why he acted thus. His reply was, “It is because I know that
   Deacon B. will pass at a certain time on his way to church, and
   again on his way back. I do not mind the rest of you, for you
   do not properly live what you profess, but I tell you I do mind
   him, and to run my mill while he is passing would make me feel
   bad here”--putting his hand upon his heart.

   Theosophy in its mystic theories includes the concept that the
   spirit within each individual forms a visible aura or halo
   around him, which can be seen by many who possess the faculty of
   discernment. The spirit of a true Christian is apprehended by
   those about him far more accurately than might be imagined. For
   the spirit inevitably impels the actions of the life.

    (558)


                       CONSTITUTION IN OBSCURITY

   A schoolboy in Brooklyn was asked: “What is the Constitution of
   the United States?” He replied: “It is that part in small print
   in the back of the book that nobody reads.”

    (559)


   =Constraint=--See ACQUIESCENCE TO PROVIDENCE.


   =Consumption=--See TUBERCULOSIS.


   =Consumption and Vocal Exercises=--See SINGING CONDUCIVE TO HEALTH.


                                CONTACT

If one’s heart be charged with sympathy, he will convey it by his
handshaking, as if he carried with him this ingenious toy:

   An “electric handshaker” to shock unsuspecting friends, has been
   devised by a man in Paterson, N. J. The specification of the
   patent that he has secured reads, according to _The Western
   Electrician_: “It is intended that the cell or battery
   and coil be concealed in the inside breast pocket or other
   convenient hiding-place on the person intending to operate the
   toy. The two wires are to be run down the sleeve of the operator
   and the ring slipt on one of his fingers, the two contact
   buttons being turned toward the palm of the hand. If now, the
   circuit through the induction-coil and battery being closed, the
   operator shakes hands or otherwise brings the two buttons on the
   ring into contact with another person, this person receives a
   most surprizing and effective electric shock. Owing to the small
   size and the ingenious method of concealing the apparatus, the
   recipient of the shock does not at once discover the source of
   the discharge, and the toy is productive of much amusement.”
   (Text.)

    (560)

   See SYMPATHY.


   =Contact with the Blind=--See BLINDNESS AND CONTACT.


   =Contagion=--See POST-MORTEM CONSEQUENCES.


   =Contagion of Evil=--See EVIL, VIRULENCY OF.


                             CONTAMINATION

   A party of young people were about to explore a coal-mine.
   One of the young ladies appeared drest in white. A friend
   remonstrated with her. Not liking the interference, she turned
   to the old miner, who was to conduct them, and said:

   “Can’t I wear a white dress down in the mine?”

   “Yes, mum,” was his reply. “There is nothing to hinder you from
   wearing a white frock down there, but there’ll be considerable
   to keep you from wearing one back.”

There is nothing to hinder a Christian from conforming to the world’s
standard of living, but there is a good deal to keep him from being
unspotted if he does. Christians were put into the atmosphere of this
world to purify it, and not to be poisoned by it.

    (561)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Mr. Hilditch, of the Sheffield Laboratory of Bacteriology and
   Hygiene, Yale University, has demonstrated that the average
   number of bacteria in each of twenty-one bills was 142,000,
   while by far the most common forms present were the varieties
   of the pyogenic staphylococcus. These organisms were not in
   possession of their full virulence, but merely produced a more
   or less local reaction, on guinea-pig injection, with swelling
   of the lymph glands of the groin. Their constant presence
   on money is certainly of greater significance than merely
   indicating the exposure to the bacterial contamination of the
   air; they clearly indicate that the money has been contaminated
   by handling and without regard to the virulence or the danger of
   infection to which these particular organisms themselves expose
   those who receive the money, they establish beyond question
   the most fundamental and significant fact for scientific
   demonstration, viz., that money is a medium of bacterial
   communication from one individual to another.--_The Popular
   Science Monthly._

    (562)


                       CONTAMINATION, DEATH FROM

For the soldier in the far-away Philippines, death lurks in many
places. Perhaps it is the enemy in the open, or the shot from the
thicket, or the assassin’s knife in the dark. These are not the
deadliest foes, however. The cholera is everywhere. Man can guard
against the one, but he falls a victim to the other. Not long since
a certain constabulary officer had met the enemy and defeated them.
Before he reached camp on the return march, however, disease laid hold
upon him for its own. Ere he reached the camp he was dead. In trying to
explain that sudden demise, a companion of the march said:

   When we stopt at shacks on the roadside and asked for water it
   was furnished us in a coconut shell with the native’s thumb dipt
   in and the water so muddy one could not see the bottom, but down
   it went with some jest about a cool death.

The thumb of the native, dipt in the shell of water, brought death to
the drinker. There is another sort of cup in which lurks the serpent of
death--the wine cup.

    (563)


   =Contempt of Patriotism=--See MEMORIALS OF PATRIOTISM.


                                CONTENT

Robert Trowbridge wrote for _Scribner’s Magazine_ the following
verse:

    My neighbor hath a little field,
    Small store of wine its presses yield,
    And truly but a slender hoard
    Its harvest brings for barn or board.
    Yet tho a hundred fields are mine,
    Fertile with olive, corn, and vine;
    Tho autumn piles my garners high,
    Still for that little field I sigh,
    For, ah! methinks no other where
    Is any field so good and fair.
    Small tho it be, ’tis better far
    Than all my fruitful vineyards are,
    Amid whose plenty sad I pine--
    “Ah, would that little field were mine!”

    Large knowledge void of peace and rest,
    And wealth with pining care possest--
    These by my fertile lands are meant.
    That little field is called Content.

    (564)


                              CONTENTMENT

   There is a story of an old woman who was very uncomfortable
   in her temper. She was always fretting and worrying and
   complaining. Nothing ever went right with her, and everybody was
   tired of her continual crossness and grumbling.

   At last, late in her life, there came a change over her, and
   this cross, crabbed old woman grew gentle, patient and amiable.
   She was so altered from her former self that one of her
   neighbors took courage to ask her how it was that she, who had
   always found life so full of prickles, now seemed to touch the
   smooth and pleasant side of everything.

   “Well,” said she, “I’ll tell you how it is. I’ve been all my
   life a-struggling and a-striving for a contented mind, and now
   I’ve made up my mind to sit down contented without it.”

    (565)

   See OPTIMISM.


   =Contentment More than Raiment=--See CHARACTER MORE THAN CLOTHING.


   =Contest, Made for=--See BODY, MASTERING THE.


   =Contingency=--See COMMON PROBLEM, THE.


   =Continuity of Life=--See LIFE, CONTINUED.


   =Contraband Traffic=--See EVIDENCE, PROVIDENTIAL.


   =Contraction of Stomach=--See ADAPTATION.


   =Contrariness=--See DOURNESS.


                    CONTRAST NECESSARY TO INTEREST

   In nature as well as in poetry the sense of beauty is stimulated
   by contrast. If all women were pretty, how soon we should cease
   to admire lovely eyes and fair complexions and the thousand
   charms which make women in their weakness stronger than men
   are in their strength; if all men were handsome fine features
   would be disregarded. In climates which have months of perpetual
   drought and heat, the blue sky becomes hateful, and the sun,
   instead of being the best of friends, as in temperate lands, is
   regarded as an enemy. An Englishman finds cloudy days depressing
   because they are so frequent in his own land; his brothers in
   tropical lands welcome them because they are so few. In animal
   life, too, the same rule holds good, and I question if we should
   admire the exquisite shape of a gazelle or of a well-bred horse,
   and the superb plumage of the peacock and the secretary-bird,
   were it not for the contrast afforded by the rhinoceros, the
   hippopotamus, and the vulture.--_Illustrated London News._

    (566)


   =Contrasted Careers=--See CAREERS CONTRASTED.


   =Contrasts, Shameful=--See EXTRAVAGANCE, CENSURABLE.


                            CONTROL, DIVINE

   The late Prof. Henry Drummond was staying at the house of a
   friend whose coachman had imperiled his career more than once
   by drunkenness. “Do try and speak to him about it,” said the
   lady to Professor Drummond. Driving to the station, Professor
   Drummond sat beside the coachman. The carriage narrowly escaped
   collision through the carelessness of another driver. “Didn’t
   I manage that well?” said the coachman to Professor Drummond.
   “You did, indeed. How was it?” “Because,” said the coachman, “I
   understand the horses’ mouths exactly and they obey my slightest
   guidance.” Drummond seized the opportunity immediately. “I have
   only a minute,” he said, “but let me ask, Why don’t you throw
   the reins of your life to God, who understands your mouth and
   is ready and willing to guide you?” The word went home to the
   coachman’s heart. (Text.)

    (567)


                       CONTROL OF CIRCUMSTANCES

   The time has not yet come when man may plow the atmosphere for
   rain as he plows the soil for crops. If mines must be worked
   and towns built in arid regions, let promoters of these schemes
   be required to build aqueducts and bore wells sufficient in
   advance to supply the needed water, not waiting until droughts
   come and the people die. Every place on this globe has its rainy
   years and its dry years. Areas of cold and heat, wind and calm,
   rain and drought, appear and move and disappear in irregular
   succession. We must prepare for them and provide against
   disaster. We can not control the weather, but we may control
   ourselves.

    (568)


                              CONVERSION

   Rev. J. Hawksley, a missionary among the Indians of the
   Klondyke, was one evening holding a service and using a magic
   lantern. He threw upon the screen a picture of Christ cleansing
   the temple. An inveterate gambler in the audience was so imprest
   with the attitude of Christ that the words in explanation went
   straight to his heart. “If Christ was so angry at those who did
   such things in His earthly temple, I am sure He would never let
   such a sinner as I am come into His holy temple above. I will
   give up my gambling and ask His pardon.” And the man kept his
   word.

    (569)

       *       *       *       *       *

That man steeped in iniquity can be won back by the grace of Christ to
a life of decency and service is one of the marvels of the world.

   Luther Burbank, the well-known botanist, finds in nature this
   renewing and generating quality. He can take a tree that shows
   distinct evidence of decay, that looks as if it were beyond
   recovery, and treat it, and treat it again, until he rescues
   it from its bad habits of many years’ standing. He directs its
   energies so that they flow in new channels and, as “if by the
   shock of recreation,” what was once blighted and blasted becomes
   beautiful, fragrant and fruitful. (Text.)

    (570)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In 1855 some Hebrew Christians met in New York to observe the
   Passover. The meal being over, one after the other rose to
   testify to faith and love in Christ. One man sat with head dropt
   between his hands, then sobs shook his body, and those around
   saw that a mighty conflict was in progress in his soul. Suddenly
   he leapt to his feet and cried, “I will no longer deny my Lord!
   I will follow Him outside the camp.” God took that Polish
   Jew--for it was Bishop Schereschewsky--and through him gave the
   Mandarin Bible to the vast empire of China. The Passover had
   become the Supper of the Lord.

    (571)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Like a ship becalmed in tropic seas, whose sails hang useless
   in the breathless air, whose sailors wearily, idly wander about
   the decks or lean listlessly over the bulwarks looking into
   the waveless, torpid sea, and over which the heavy gloom of
   despair and hopeless waiting hangs like a stifling air, so is
   many a soul arrested in the voyage of life. Its energies are
   like the useless sails, its thoughts like the listless sailors,
   the whole spirit of its life like the dull, weary scene of the
   idly drifting ship. And when at length the welcome wind comes
   rippling the sea’s dead calm, filling the drooping sails,
   lifting the ship onward in its course, what music in the rustle
   of its coming! what joy in the new force it brings to the
   forceless ship! what animation of life, revival of hope, fleeing
   of all the dull, dreary spirits which haunted the scene a moment
   before! So is a soul who has lived with no great, good purpose
   which gave progress, importance, and interest to life, when at
   length it seizes on the great Christian purpose of living unto
   God. (Text.)--W. R. BROOKS, _Baptist Examiner_.

    (572)

   See CREATURE, A NEW.


                        CONVERSION AND A BUTTON

   In the life of Charles G. Finney there is an account of the
   conversion of a prominent merchant. He went to hear Mr. Finney
   preach and was powerfully affected. Mr. Arthur Tappan, the
   eminent merchant, sat near him and noticed his agitation. In
   telling his experience afterward he said that as he arose to
   go, Mr. Tappan stept up and took him gently by the button of
   his coat and asked him to stay for prayer and conversation. He
   tried to excuse himself, but Mr. Tappan held on till he finally
   yielded. He said afterward, “He held fast to my button, so that
   an ounce weight at my button was the means of saving my soul.”

    (573)

   =Conversion, Evidence of=--See FAMILY RELIGION.


                          CONVERSION, GENUINE

The convert is known by his fruits. Conduct, conversation, and
character, are the infallible tests of a personality transformed within.

   In a large iron factory one of the worst men in the place was
   converted. He had been a man of terrible temper, and could
   scarcely speak without swearing and blaspheming against God.
   After his conversion his comrades waited for his temper to break
   out as before, and to hear him give utterance to a string of
   oaths. But nothing of the sort occurred. So they prepared a trap
   for him, which they felt sure would cause his downfall. They
   heated a long bar of iron and tempered it so that it would look
   as tho it were cold. Then they laid it on the floor when he was
   absent, and waited for him to come in and pick it up. Presently
   he returned, and, stooping over, grasped the hot iron with both
   hands. His comrades now expected an explosion, for there was a
   badly blistered strip of flesh on each hand. But the man simply
   turned round and said quietly, “Men, I didn’t think you would do
   that.”

   At these words, so different from what they expected, tears
   ran down the cheeks of those strong men; a revival broke out
   then and there, and many of those ironworkers found salvation,
   because that man had not lost his temper, but had shown the
   reality of his transformation.

    (574)


                       CONVERSION, NOT UNNATURAL

Why should people balk at conversion as if it was something foreign to
the universe? The fact is that there is not a moment of time when the
process ceases. Dr. W. L. Watkinson calls attention to it in this way:

   You come away from your house leaving your inkpot with the sun
   shining upon it. You go back. Where is your ink? Why, if you
   look up into the sky to-morrow you will see it in the rainbow!
   Nature is absolutely full of cleansings, of refinements,
   of marvelous chemistries, upliftings, transformations,
   transmutations, transfigurations! And do you mean to tell me
   that in a world where you see every day the miracle of renewal,
   the miracle of transfiguration--do you mean to tell me that the
   only thing in it that can not be changed is the human soul, that
   which it is most desirable to change? (Text.)

    (575)


                          CONVERSION, SINCERE

   Mr. C. T. Studd, a missionary to China, tells the following:

   A white-haired old Chinaman, over fifty years of age, an old
   opium-smoker, came to us, and having learned of Jesus Christ,
   was converted, went home and took down his idols. The elders
   of the village came to him for a subscription to their heathen
   temples. “I now worship the true God and can not henceforth pay
   any money for idol worship,” said the old man. When his reply
   was known, his village and a neighboring village took counsel
   and decided that they would kill him. One day, as the old man
   sat in his chair, a mob surrounded his home yelling and cursing.
   He sat quietly praying. One of the six men who stood at the door
   ready to kill him shouted, “Now, old man, you come out.”

   “No,” he replied quietly, “if you want me out, you must come and
   pull me out.”

   A dispute arose among the representatives of the villages as
   to which should have precedence in this act of religious zeal,
   and the contention waged so high that neither one dared to kill
   the gray-haired old man. They dispersed to their homes, and
   after living peacefully a while longer, the old Christian passed
   quietly to his heavenly home in 1895.

    (576)


                        CONVERTED BY THE COMET

   The first conversion to Christianity by Halley’s comet was
   recorded to-day. As far as the available records show, this is
   the comet’s first convert.

   At 4:30 o’clock yesterday morning a number of people who had
   shortened their matutinal slumbers to watch the great sidereal
   visitor from the roof of a Fourth Avenue apartment house were
   startled by a loud cry from one of their party. The man, a
   professional skeptic, was standing with arms outstretched to the
   heavens, weeping profusely.

   “This convinces me that there is a God,” he said to his friends.
   “Hereafter I shall always live as a Christian. These stars could
   not be unless there is a God.”

   The profound impression created on the man by the spectacle had
   not worn off to-day, and he assured his friends he meant to
   attend church regularly hereafter and to conduct himself as a
   Godfearing man should.

   “I had never seen the heavens as I did then,” he declared this
   morning. “I did not realize what a wonderful world it is.”

   The man’s name is withheld in order to save him from what his
   friends say would be embarrassing publicity. His agnostic
   beliefs have long been the despair of his well-wishers, who are
   elated over his curious conversion.--Brooklyn _Eagle_.
   (May, 1910.)

    (577)


   =Converts in Heathendom=--See NATIVE CONVERTS.


   =Convict, A=--See DEAD THO ALIVE.


                             CONVICT LABOR

   Last summer about forty per cent of the Colorado convicts were
   put to work outside their prison walls. A thousand were employed
   exclusively in road-building. The cost for each prisoner
   employed was thirty-six cents a day and the counties where the
   roads were built paid this amount, less the amount the State
   would have to pay to maintain them in the prison. The day’s
   work was eight hours, and for each month’s service there was a
   substantial subtraction from the term of imprisonment. No chains
   were attached, no stripes were worn and there was no armed guard
   to patrol the work camps; yet less than one-half of one per cent
   of those thus employed were lost by escapes.

   The success of the method may be due largely to the tact and
   judgment of the warden. The road work is said to be the desire
   of every prisoner, but he must earn the privilege by good
   conduct. The warden personally has a talk with each prisoner
   before assigning him to this service and receives his pledge
   that he will be true and faithful to his trust. “The best effect
   of this,” he says, “is that every man who goes from prison to
   road work and keeps his word with me, has taken a long step
   toward reformation.”

   This seems to be one of the best solutions of the two problems,
   how to get good roads and employ the inmates of our penal
   institutions in healthful labor, under conditions that appeal
   to their manliness and better nature. Of course, this method
   must be discriminatingly applied, but the proof that it is
   workable is a valuable contribution to penology.--Boston
   _Transcript_.

    (578)


                              CONVICTION

Alexander McLaren says:

   I once heard that if you take a bit of phosphorus and put it
   upon a slip of wood and ignite the phosphorus, bright as the
   blaze is, there drops from it a white ash that coats the wood,
   and makes it almost impossible to kindle the wood. And so, when
   the flaming conviction laid upon your heart has burnt itself
   out, it has coated the heart, and it will be very difficult to
   kindle the light there again.

    (579)


   =Conviction as a Foundation=--See HUMAN NATURE, INSECURITY OF.


                      CONVICTION THROUGH A MONKEY

The Boston _Herald_ is the authority for this story from Baton
Rouge, La.:

   Because their conviction for murder was based almost entirely
   on the animosity displayed against them by a trained monkey,
   Christopher Starr and his wife, Mamie, circus performers, are
   serving life sentences in State prison.

   A movement has been started to obtain a new trial for them.
   During the circus season, James Ackerman, proprietor of a
   one-ring circus, was murdered while his show was playing at
   Devall’s Landing, La.

   Mr. and Mrs. Starr, who had had a troupe of trained animals with
   the show, were arrested soon afterward, but there was little
   evidence against them, and they would have been released but
   for the actions of Scamp, a pet Himalayan ape, belonging to Mr.
   Ackerman.

   Ackerman had been feeding the ape when he was slain, and when
   the animal, which was the only living witness of the crime, saw
   Starr, he flew into a terrible rage.

   This action was repeated whenever Starr appeared, despite the
   fact that he formerly had been a friend of Scamp, and it was
   repeated when Mrs. Starr was seen.

   The monkey’s actions caused husband and wife to be indicted, and
   when placed on trial the monkey was brought into court, and so
   imprest the jury that, altho the evidence was not over-strong,
   they were found guilty.

    (580)


                        CONVICTION, UNYIELDING

   Lord Lyndhurst told a curious anecdote about a trial of a civil
   cause in which the jury would not agree on their verdict.
   They retired on the evening of one day, and remained till one
   o’clock the next afternoon, when, being still disagreed, a
   juror was drawn. There was only one juror who held out against
   the rest--Mr. Berkeley (M.P. for Bristol). The case was tried
   over again, and the jury were unanimously of Mr. Berkeley’s
   opinion, which was, in fact, right--a piece of conscientious
   obstinacy which prevented the legal commission of a wrong.
   (Text.)--GREVILLE’S “Memoirs.”

    (581)


   =Convictions, Lack of=--See INCERTITUDE.


                          CONVICTIONS, STRONG

   Many years ago in the city of New York there was an organized
   set of dishonest men known as the Tweed Ring. They stole
   $51,000,000 from the State and city, and everybody knew it.
   When they told Tweed that he was under arrest, he dared to say,
   “Well, what are you going to do about it?” There was a merchant
   in New York named William Sloane. They put him on the Grand
   Jury. Because of his large business interests and the tremendous
   demands upon his time, he said, “I can not serve.” But earnest
   men said, “Here is the bulwark of sin and here is the need
   of righteousness.” Immediately he said, “I will serve.” Now,
   certain men on the jury had been bought up by Tweed. One man
   in particular stood out. For twenty-three hours that jury sat
   in council. They could not come to an agreement; this one man
   would not yield. Finally, Mr. Sloane put his hand on this man’s
   shoulder and said: “Do you know, sir, that the people whom we
   represent know the character of this man on trial? They know
   that we have explicit, convincing evidence against him. And do
   you know that I will stay here until I die before I will go out
   and say that this jury does not agree?” The man yielded, Tweed
   was convicted, sentenced and committed to jail.

There has never been a time in the history of our own land or in the
history of Christendom when men standing for righteousness and truth
have not accomplished something. It may sometimes mean their death.
(Text.)

    (582)


   =Convictions versus Cash=--See RESPONSIBILITY AFFECTS JUDGMENT.


   =Cooking, The Art of=--See WASTE, THE PROBLEM OF.


                               COOLNESS

During the battle of Waterloo the Duke of Wellington appeared
frequently among his men. Sergeant Cotton, in his book “A Voice from
Waterloo,” says:

   Whenever the Duke came, which at this momentous period was
   often, there was a low whisper in the ranks “Here’s the Duke!”
   and all was steady as on parade. No matter what the havoc and
   destruction might be, the Duke was always the coolest man there;
   in the words of an eye-witness of this bloody scene, the Duke
   was coolness personified.

    (583)


                          COOLNESS IN DANGER

   Michael Henry Ryan, able seaman on the liner
   _Philadelphia_, would rather drown than be rescued by means
   of a rope which had a poorly tied sailor’s knot in it. Ryan
   proved this by risking his life in mid-Atlantic waves until he
   could retie the knot.

   The rescue in itself was one of the most remarkable in the
   history of the American line. The captain from the bridge saw
   Ryan go over the side. It was too rough to launch a boat and the
   liner was stopt almost in its own length and sent astern so that
   it drifted down upon the struggling seaman. A line was lowered.

   When Ryan caught the rope he examined the knot. The sea was
   smashing him against the side of the ship.

   “Who tied this knot?” he called out to the men on deck. And
   then he calmly untied the knot and retied it in his own way.
   All the while he gave his opinion of the lubbers on deck and
   their inability to tie a knot. Then he put the loop under his
   arms and called out to those above to haul him up.--Chicago
   _Tribune_.

    (584)


   =Cooperation=--See HELP ONE ANOTHER; WORKING TOGETHER; WORLD
     IMPROVING.


   =Cooperation, Divine=--See FAITH IN GOD; GROWTH, CAUSE OF.


                         COOPERATION, LACK OF

   An old Norse legend tells of a departed spirit meeting his
   guardian angel in the other world, and commiserating him upon
   his forlorn and haggard looks, only to receive the reproving
   reply: “No wonder I am worn out. All your life I have been
   fighting in your behalf, and I never got a bit of assistance
   from you.” (Text.)

    (585)


                         COOPERATION WITH GOD

   The farmer drops a seed into the ground and goes away and leaves
   it. It sprouts and grows, and by and by he reaps the harvest
   of the sowing, and he says, “I have harvested, I have raised so
   many bushels of corn to the acre.” Oh, no, he has not. He has
   sown so many seeds, he has cultivated so many acres, he has put
   in his sickle or his harvesting machine, and he has gathered
   so many stalks. But he could not have done it if some forces
   of nature had not been at work perfecting that which he began.
   He and nature, as we say--he and God, as I say--have worked
   together to raise the harvest. (Text.)--LYMAN ABBOTT.

    (586)

   See GRATITUDE.


                             COPYING VAIN

   It would never make an arithmetician of a boy at school if
   he merely copied the solution of arithmetic problems from
   his neighbor’s slate or paper, even tho the solutions thus
   copied should be the correct ones. To become an arithmetician
   the boy must himself learn to solve problems; and this means
   that he must understand thoroughly every step in the process
   of solution. The process must go through him, or through his
   intelligence, as well as that he must go through the process.
   He must know what he is aiming at, and why it is that he adds,
   subtracts, multiplies, and divides, every time that he does any
   of these. Merely to put down figures on his paper, even should
   they be the right figures by chance, unless he understands
   the why and the when, would do him no good whatsoever. And it
   would not make the matter one whit better if he imagined the
   schoolmaster would be pleased with seeing him put down right
   figures without understanding what he was doing, or why he was
   doing it. The whole would only show that he was far back in
   intelligence, and would hardly ever become an arithmetician. We
   can not become truly religious either by being mere copiers of
   the religion of others, or by fetish worship.--ALEXANDER
   MILLER, “Heaven and Hell Here.”

    (587)


   =Cordiality=--See HOSPITALITY IN CHURCH.


                           CORN VERSUS GOLD

   Drop a grain of California gold into the ground, and there it
   will lie unchanged to the end of time, the clods on which it
   falls not more cold and lifeless. Drop a grain of our gold, of
   our blest gold, into the ground, and lo! a mystery. In a few
   days it softens, it swells, it shoots upward, it is a living
   thing. It is yellow itself, but it sends up a delicate spire,
   which comes peeping, emerald green, through the soil; it expands
   to a vigorous stalk; revels in the air and sunshine; arrays
   itself, more glorious than Solomon, in its broad, fluttering,
   leafy robes, whose sound, as the west wind whispers through
   them, falls as pleasantly on the husbandman’s ear as the rustle
   of his sweetheart’s garment; still towers aloft, spins its
   verdant skeins of vegetable floss, displays its dancing tassels,
   surcharged with fertilizing dust, and at last ripens into two
   or three magnificent batons like this [an ear of Indian corn],
   each of which is studded with hundreds of grains of gold, every
   one possessing the same wonderful properties as the parent
   grain, every one instinct with the same marvelous reproductive
   powers. There are seven hundred and twenty grains on the ear
   which I hold in my hand. I presume there were two or three such
   ears on the stalk. This would give us one thousand four hundred
   and forty, perhaps two thousand one hundred and sixty grains as
   the product of one. They would yield next season, if they were
   all successfully planted, four thousand two hundred, perhaps
   six thousand three hundred ears. Who does not see that, with
   this stupendous progression, the produce of one grain in a few
   years might feed all mankind? And yet with this visible creation
   annually springing and ripening around us, there are men who
   doubt, who deny the existence of God. Gold from the Sacramento
   River, sir! There is a sacrament in this ear of corn enough to
   bring an atheist to his knees.--EDWARD EVERETT.

    (588)


                           CORRUPTION, INNER

   Athenian society decayed at last, not at all because its
   artists had reached the limit of human invention, or its
   philosophers the necessary term of human thought, but because
   the moral faculties and tastes which should have presided in
   that society were not developed in proportion to the esthetic
   and intellectual powers which added to its ornament. It was
   outwardly like the statue of Minerva in the Parthenon, of costly
   ivory, overlaid with gold; but it was wood within; and the wood
   rotted; that is all that can be said of it. Then the cunning of
   the ivory, and the splendor of the gold, fell and were broken,
   and the nations gathered the shining fragments.--RICHARD S.
   STORRS.

    (589)


                         COSMOLOGY, PRIMITIVE

   Knowing nothing of the planetary system, early man had to
   account in his own way for the apparent fixity of the earth, and
   as the Greeks invented the giant Atlas, the Hindus contrived
   a huge turtle to bear the world upon its patient back. What
   sustained the giant or the monster, the ancient mind inquired
   not. To make everything out of anything and believe with
   implicit faith in his own creations was the happy faculty of
   early man, not entirely fallen from possession in these days
   of all-questioning. The first Egyptians knew that the heavens
   and the earth were formed by the breaking of the cosmic egg,
   an idea suggested by the resemblance of the skies to the half
   of an eggshell. That is as poetic and more agreeable than the
   Norse idea of a giant dashed to pieces to make earth, water, and
   starry firmament. The Mexican legend as to the creation of man
   resembles the Hebraic, clay and the breath of life admitted.
   But the North American Indians explain the mixt nature of man
   by declaring that the daughter of the Great Spirit, living in
   the wigwam, Mount Shasta, stole forth one day, was seized by a
   patriarchal grizzly, who took her home and wedded her to his
   son. Man was the result of this union. As a punishment for
   the sacrilege in contaminating the race of the Great Spirit,
   grizzlies were deprived the power of speech and made to wander
   ever after on all fours.--Chicago _Inter-Ocean_.

    (590)


   =Cosmopolitanism=--See AMERICANISM, TRUE.


   =Cosmopolitanism in Education=--See EDUCATION BY TRAVEL.


   =Cost of Disease=--See HEALTH AND SCIENCE.


                             COST RECKONED

   When your child throws away a piece of bread, make him pick it
   up again and tell him the history of that piece of bread. Tell
   him what has been requisite that that bread might exist. Tell
   him of the toils of the plowman and of the sower, under the sky,
   inclement and changeful; the obscure bursting of the seed in
   the ground, the long sleep under the snow, the awakening in the
   spring, when the green life along the furrows makes its orisons
   to the sun, source of life. Describe the hope of the farmer when
   the corn puts forth its ears, and his anguish when the storm
   rises on the horizon. Do not forget the harvester who wields
   his scythe in the dog-day heat, and that poor prisoner of the
   cities, pledged to nocturnal toil in overheated cellars, the
   baker. (Text.)--CHARLES WAGNER, “The Gospel of Life.”

    (591)


                               COST, THE

   In the Newark, N. J., public library is a statue of Benjamin
   Franklin carved in Carrara marble. It embodies an incident
   in his life. When a lad he bought a whistle from a playmate,
   giving all the coppers he possest for it. He whistled all over
   the house, until his brothers and sisters told him he had paid
   too much for the whistle, laughing at him until he cried from
   mortification and chagrin.

Franklin was not the first nor the last to pay too much for the
whistle. Music is not the only thing that may come at too high a price.

    (592)


                       COUNTENANCE, GRACE IN THE

   The face of the veteran missionary, John G. Paton, was itself
   an inspiration to the beholder and a revelation to the triumphs
   of the grace of God in the man. Once when Principal Story was
   introducing him to an audience, he casually remarked that
   much of Doctor Paton’s life had been spent among savages and
   cannibals, and many a time he had been in danger of being killed
   and eaten, but had escaped unscathed. “But,” added Principal
   Story, “I do not wonder, for had I been one of those cannibals,
   one look at that benignant face would have been enough to make
   me a vegetarian for the rest of my days.” (Text.)

    (593)


   =Counterfeiters=--See CRIMINALS, TRACING.


                          COUNTRY ADVANTAGES

   Only forty-seven per cent of our population of working age
   reside in the country districts; they furnish fifty-seven per
   cent of our successful men, while the cities, with twenty per
   cent of the population, furnish seventeen per cent.

    (594)


                            COUNTRY, A NEW

   A Chinese lived in Yokohama some twelve years ago. He was a
   house-painter by occupation, and went about wearing a very
   much bedaubed suit of clothes, caked here and there with
   white and green and yellow. He was a Christian and attended
   church regularly. When the leader said, “Let any one pray who
   will,” John never failed to take part. The gladness of his
   soul spoke itself forth in a kind of Cantonned Japanese, the
   full meaning of which was known to himself and God only. When
   the _Shinasan_ (Mr. Chinaman) prayed, many a face in
   the room became wreathed in smiles, and sometimes a hand was
   necessary over the mouth to help hold the hearer steady. John
   paid no attention; he cared not who laughed at his prayers,
   he was happy, God had forgiven him; and tho a Chinese, he
   said good-by to the world, and cut his cue off. One day a
   Korean friend met him and said, “Honorable sir from the great
   country, where is your cue?” “Cue? Cue belong no good, makee
   cut off.” “But you will not dare to go home, you have lost your
   country.” “_Maskee_ country,” said John; “my country belong
   _Htien-kuoa, Htien-kuoa_” (“heaven, heaven”), pointing
   upward.--JAMES S. GALE, “Korea in Transition.”

    (595)


   =Country Church=--See CHURCH, THE COUNTRY.


                       COUNTRY, LONGING FOR THE

    If out beyond the city’s farthest edge
      There were no roads that led through sleepy towns,
    No winds to blow through any thorny hedge,
      No pathways over hazel-tufted downs,
    I might not, when the day begins, be sad
    Because I toil among the money-mad.

    If out beyond the distant hill there lay
      No valley graced by any winding stream,
    And if no slim, white steeples far away
      Might mark the spots where drowsy hamlets dream,
    I could, perhaps, at midday be content
    Where striving millions at their tasks are bent.

    If far away from noise and strife and care
      There were no buds to swell on waiting trees,
    No mating birds to spill upon the air
      The liquid sweetness of their melodies
    I might, at sunset be serene and proud
    Because a few had seen me in the crowd.

    --The Chicago _Record-Herald_.

    (596)


   =Country, Love of=--See FIDELITY; HOME WHERE THE HEART IS.


   =Country, Serving One’s=--See SEEKING SERVICE.


                                COURAGE

   When a soldier ran crying to Pelopidas, “We are fallen among the
   enemies, and are lost!” “How are we fallen among them any more
   than they among us?” replied the undaunted spirit. And when the
   soldiers of Marius complained of thirst, being encamped where
   there was no water, he pointed to a river running close to the
   enemy’s trenches, and bade them take the drink which valor could
   give them in that direction.--JAMES T. FIELDS.

    (597)

       *       *       *       *       *

“Evils faced are half-conquered.” Such seems to be the purport of this
poem by John Finley:

    I’d have the driving rain upon my face--
      Not pelting its blunt arrows on my back,
      Goading with blame along its ruthless track,
    But flinging me defiance in the race.

    And I would go at such an eager gait
      That whatsoe’er may fall from heaven of wo
      Shall not pursue me as some coward foe,
    But challenge me--that I may face my fate.

    (Text.)--_Harper’s Magazine._

    (598)

       *       *       *       *       *

    I have walked on the Mount of Gladness, I have wept in the Vale of
      Tears,
    And my feet have stumbled ofttimes as I trod through the path of
      the years;
    Yet my heart has ever lifted its song of thankful praise
    To the God of all eternity, who has kept me in my ways,
    Tho alone I tread the wine-press, or kneel in Gethsemane,
    I know He has never forsaken, and that He leadeth me.
    Tho I “walk through the Valley of Shadow,” my soul shall not be
      dismayed,
    For my God is the God of the fathers, the God of the unafraid!

    --_Northwestern Christian Advocate._

    (599)

       *       *       *       *       *

It is easy to be courageous when backed by the crowd. It is different
when one stands alone against the crowd.

   At the beginning of the eighteenth century Professor Simson, of
   Glasgow, was on trial in the General Assembly for dangerous
   heresy. He was convicted, and suspended from preaching and
   teaching. There were some who thought the sentence inadequate.
   Boston, of Ettrick, was one of them. He was a shy man. But no
   one else offering to rise, he rose, overcoming his timidity,
   to enter his dissent against the inadequate condemnation of
   Simson--to enter his dissent in his own name and in the names of
   all who would adhere to him, adding, amid solemn silence on the
   part of the assembly, “And for myself if nobody shall adhere.”

    (600)

   See ACHIEVEMENT; FITNESS.


   =Courage, Calm=--See FAITHFULNESS.


                          COURAGE, CHRISTIAN

During the Boxer rebellion the railroad tracks laid by the Russians
in Manchuria were torn up, and the Russian troops were sent on an
expedition to punish the Chinese insurgents. The Russians marched
from city to city destroying and looting, meeting with practically no
resistance. But at one place something unexpected happened, as told by
Mr. H. J. Whigham in _V.C._ (London):

   The Russians marched up to the gates and were just about to
   enter when the Boxers opened fire upon them. The army was
   withdrawn, the batteries were got out, and the general was just
   going to smash up the city when the Scotch missionary, Doctor
   Westwater (acting as interpreter) approached him and asked for a
   moment’s truce.

   “I undertake,” he said, “to enter the city and to induce it to
   surrender without a shot being fired on one condition.”

   “Which is?”

   “That there shall be no destruction and no looting; none
   whatever.”

   The general yielded, and mounting his pony, Doctor Westwater
   rode forward to the city alone.

   Now, when you consider that the city was full of Boxers, you
   will realize that it was a pretty considerable act of courage
   for a minister, of all men, to ride unarmed through those
   seething streets. This was what Westwater did. The city was a
   roaring hive of armed Boxers, muskets peeping from roof and
   window, and the streets ringing with the noise of arms. At the
   missionary quarters Doctor Westwater was fortunate enough to
   find a Christian convert, who conducted him to a place where the
   merchant gild were holding a sort of cabinet council.

   Westwater explained matters, appealed to the citizens to avoid
   bloodshed, and pledged his word that neither destruction nor
   looting should mark the Russian occupation of their city. The
   appeal was successful, and he rode quietly back to the Russian
   general.

   The general was an awful brute, as bad as he could be, but
   Westwater’s action seemed to impress him, and his orders were
   very exact. During his occupation of the city there was no
   single instance of crime. Westwater’s gallant action, too,
   imprest even the Boxers. They named him the savior of the town,
   and when, some months later, he took his departure for home, he
   was made the honored guest of extraordinary banquets, and was
   accompanied to the railway station by all the grateful citizens,
   half of them waving flags and half of them banging musical
   instruments.

    (601)

   See TROUBLE BRAVELY MET.


                          COURAGE CONTAGIOUS

Charles Wagner, in “The Gospel of Life,” says:

   You are struggling with difficulties, your look is troubled
   and your good will as well. One of those painful moments of
   strife and discouragement, when man is no longer anything but
   the shadow of himself, is passing over. In these circumstances
   a newspaper falls into your hands. In it you read that, on
   such and such a day, in the heart of Africa, surprized by
   an ambuscade, surrounded by enemies in superior numbers, an
   officer, who does not speak your language and who is not
   fighting for your cause, has kept calm; that, the better to show
   his tranquil resolution, he has, at a moment like that, before
   his troops, hemmed in, lost, lighted his cigar, recalled in few
   words the memory of the fatherland and the duty of a soldier;
   and then marched toward the enemy and to certain death. It is
   all told in three lines. And when you have read it, you arise,
   you come out of your depression, you organize your resistance;
   you look your trouble in the face, you feel high spirits,
   virility, a certain generous ardor for the strife. And all this
   life, this precious elasticity of courage that animates you, you
   owe to those who are unknown to you, to the vanquished, and to
   the dead lying out yonder without burial and without name. What
   a proof of what we can do for each other?

    (602)


                            COURAGE IN LIFE

This poem has been printed as anonymous and it has also been attributed
to Edmund Vance Cook:

    Did you tackle the trouble that came your way
      With a resolute heart and cheerful
    Or hide your face from the light of day
      With a craven heart, and fearful?
    Oh, a trouble’s a ton or a trouble’s an ounce,
      Or a trouble is what you make it;
    And it isn’t the fact that you’re hurt that counts,
      But only how did you take it.

    You’re beaten to earth. Well, well, what’s that?
      Come up with a smiling face.
    It’s nothing against you to fall down flat,
      But to lie there--that’s disgrace.
    The harder you’re thrown, why, the higher you bounce;
      Be proud of your blackened eye.
    It isn’t the fact that you’re licked that counts,
      It’s how did you fight, and why.

    And tho you be done to death, what then?
      If you battled the best you could;
    If you played your part in the world of men,
      Why, the critic will call it good.
    Death comes with a crawl or comes with a pounce,
      And whether he’s slow or spry,
    It isn’t the fact that you’re dead that counts,
      But only how did you die.

    (603)


                            COURAGE, MORAL

   Mrs. George E. Pickett, wife of General Pickett, who led the
   fatal charge the last day at Gettysburg against the Union
   forces, writes of the tender memories she had of Grant. She
   called upon him with her husband while he was President. Grant
   knew that his old comrade of West Point had been made a poor
   man by the war, and he offered him the marshalship of Virginia.
   While sorely needing help, he appreciated the heavy draft made
   upon the President by office-seekers, and said: “You can’t
   afford to do this for me now, and I can’t afford to take it”;
   but Grant instantly replied with firmness, “I can afford to do
   anything I please that is right.”--Col. NICHOLAS SMITH,
   “Grant, the Man of Mystery.”

    (604)


                            COURAGE OF HOPE

These lines from an unidentified source point a New Year’s lesson:

    As a dead year is clasped in a dead December,
      So let your dead sins with your dead days lie.
    A new life is yours and a new hope. Remember
      We build our own ladders to climb to the sky.

    Stand out in the sunlight of promise, forgetting
      Whatever the past held of sorrow or wrong.
    We waste half our strength in a useless regretting;
      We sit by old tombs in the dark too long.

    Have you missed in your aim? Well, the mark is still shining.
      Did you faint in the race? Well, take breath for the next.
    Did the clouds drive you back? But see yonder their lining.
      Were you tempted and fell? Let it serve as a text.

    It is never too late to begin rebuilding
      Tho all into ruins your life has been hurled,
    For see how the light of the New Year is gilding
      The wan, worn face of the bruised old world. (Text.)

    (605)


                         COURAGE OF UTTERANCE

James Oppenheim, in a poem, “The Cry of Men,” writes this verse
inciting to boldness in uttering our truth:

      Then put off the coward--live with the Vision!
        Let me go to my work in the morning
    With fire of God, let me strike in the open, let me cry, cry aloud
      the age dawning--
    Let my life be real--faith in my heart! My eternity hangs on this day--
    God in me dies or leaps godward as I thunder my yea or my nay!

    (606)


                       COURAGE VERSUS ETIQUETTE

Here is a story of Gen. Leonard Wood, told by a Boston physician in the
New York _Times_:

   One day an infant was brought in suffering from membranous
   croup. The case was so far advanced that any delay would almost
   certainly result in death for the little one. Dr. Wood did
   not hesitate a moment. He began to work at once, carefully,
   fearlessly, promptly, and successfully. Five minutes later,
   and while both mother and patient were still in the room, the
   surgeon who should have had the case according to rule, walked
   in. The young doctor (Wood) explained, but would not apologize,
   as he was asked to do. He had done right, and he was not going
   to tell any man he was sorry for it, he said. The result was
   that he was first suspended, and then dismissed. And I call that
   courage. (Text.)

    (607)


                               COURTESY

   Charles W. Eliot introduced [at Harvard] a system of discipline
   based upon personal loyalty to college interests. It is related
   that at a faculty meeting shortly after he had been inducted
   into office, one of the faculty asked him with considerable
   severity the reason for this doing away with time-honored
   rules of discipline, when the young president replied, with
   great sweetness and courtesy, “The reason is, we have a new
   president.”--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (608)

   See KINDNESS.

       *       *       *       *       *

   The Brooklyn _Eagle_ has an office boy whose name, let us
   say, is Joe. The other day Joe was present when the wife of
   a member of the staff called to see her husband. The latter,
   having just returned from lunch, deferentially greeted the lady
   by raising his hat. Joe contemplated this act of courtesy with
   that fine scorn which office boys feel for all obligations that
   are not compulsory. “Huh!” he remarked to a companion. “You’d
   think them two was strangers!”

    (609)


   =Courtesy Imitated=--See SYMBOLS, THE VALUE OF.


                         COURTESY IN TRAVELING

   Probably few people know it, but the institution of the
   bell-cord, by which the engineman is signaled to stop his train,
   was due to the courtesy of a conductor. A general passenger
   agent told the story the other day. Back in the fifties, when
   wood was still used for fuel in locomotives, the conductor
   on a local train rigged up a bell-cord so that he could let
   passengers off at will. The stop signal was given too often for
   the engineman, who finally became so annoyed that he cut the
   rope. At the next stop the conductor went forward to the engine
   cab.

   “Jim,” he said, “I’m going to treat my passengers right. You tie
   up that bell-cord, and if you cut it again I’ll punch your head.”

   The engineman cut the cord again, and the conductor, who valued
   his reputation for courtesy to passengers, went forward and
   delivered the promised thrashing. Conductors nowadays, tho, are
   not quite so primitive in their methods, and are not obliged
   to administer personal discipline to fellow employés.--Buffalo
   _Evening News_.

    (610)


                     COURTS OF JUSTICE AMONG BIRDS

   Dr. Edmondson describes regular assemblies of crows of the
   hooded species--“crow courts,” they are called--which are held
   at certain intervals in the Shetland Isles. A particular hill
   or field suitable for the business is selected, but nothing is
   done till all are ready, and consequently the earlier comers
   have sometimes to wait for a day or two till the others arrive.
   When all have come, the court opens in a formal manner and the
   presumed criminals are arraigned at the bar. A general croaking
   and clamor are raised by the assembly and judgment is delivered,
   apparently, by the whole court. As soon as the execution is
   over, the court breaks up and all its members disperse quietly.
   An Alpine tourist relates that, during an excursion in the Swiss
   mountains, he accidently came upon a small secluded glen, which
   was surrounded by trees, and became the unexpected witness
   of a singular spectacle. About sixty or seventy ravens were
   ranged in a ring around one of their fellows, evidently reputed
   a culprit, and with much clatter of tongues and wings, were
   engaged in discussing his alleged delinquencies. At intervals
   they paused in their debate in order to permit the accused to
   reply, which he did most vociferously and with intense energy,
   but all his expostulations were speedily drowned in a deafening
   chorus of dissent. Eventually the court appears to have arrived
   at the unanimous conclusion that the felon had utterly failed
   to exculpate himself, and they suddenly flew at him from all
   sides and tore him to pieces, with their powerful beaks. Having
   executed their sentence, they speedily disappeared.--_The
   Popular Science Monthly._

    (611)


   =Covenant=--See BLOOD, THE TIE OF.


                               COWARDICE

We see by the following account of English sparrows that any coward may
seem brave when he is with the majority:

   The English sparrow has been called pugnacious. He is nothing
   of the kind. He does not love a fight. Bird to bird, there is
   nothing too small to whip him. I have seen a chipping sparrow,
   which is the least among the pasture sparrows, send the
   poltroon scurrying to shelter with all his feathers standing
   on end. A cock bluebird, fighting like a gentleman, and like a
   gentleman fighting only when he must, will drive a half-dozen
   of them. The English sparrow has the true instincts of the
   browbeating coward, and loves to fight only when in overwhelming
   numbers he may attack a lone pasture bird without danger to
   himself.--WINTHROP PACKARD, “Wild Pastures.”

    (612)


   =Craziness Indicated=--See CONCERT, LACK OF.


   =Crazy Spells=--See ABSENT-MINDEDNESS.


                        CREATION, A WITNESS OF

Ruskin finds God’s witness in creation in contemplating a leaf:

   If you ask an ordinary botanist the reason of the form of a
   leaf, he will tell you it is a “developed tubercle,” and that
   its ultimate form “is owing to the directions of its vascular
   threads.” But what directs its vascular threads? “They are
   seeking for something they want,” he will probably answer. What
   made them want that? What made them seek for it thus? Seek for
   it, in five fibers or in three? Seek for it, in serration, or in
   sweeping curves? Seek for it in servile tendrils, or impetuous
   spray? Seek for it in woolen wrinkles rough with stings, or
   in glossy surfaces, green with pure strength and winterless
   delight? It is Mr. Ruskin who asks these questions: and it is
   Mr. Ruskin who adds, “There is no answer.”

    (613)


   =Creation, Intelligence in=--See DESIGN IN NATURE.


                           CREATION, JOY IN

   God’s heart must laugh a mighty laugh of joy every spring and
   summer time. Oh, man! don’t you think you would laugh if you
   could make a leaf--not a great big green oak or maple-leaf,
   but just a wee, modest, unpretentious leaf, and yet a real
   leaf? Now, wouldn’t you thrill with joy to the ends of your
   finger-tips if you could make just one leaf? And well you might,
   for never yet was born the man who could make a leaf without God
   doing the major part of the work.

   And yet every spring God grows a million leaves and flowers out
   in the corn-fields, back in the forests, down in the meadows
   of earth. Why, truly God is right down here among us watching
   things grow, going through the corn-fields and laughing to the
   rustling music of the green blades of silken corn.--F. F.
   SHANNON.

    (614)


   =Creatorship=--See LIFE, SOURCE OF MAN’S.


                            CREATURE, A NEW

   The author of that noble hymn, “The God of Abraham praise,” was
   Thomas Olivers, the Welsh Methodist evangelist, popularly known
   as “the cobbler of Tregonan,” but who became a signal instance
   of the power of grace to change the heart and to quicken genius.
   Left an orphan early in life, he grew up neglected in learning
   and morals, and became known as the worst character in all the
   country round. But a sermon by George Whitefield, at Bristol,
   entirely changed the character of the young man, and the current
   of his life. Of that change he himself said: “When that sermon
   began, I was one of the most abandoned and profligate young men
   living; before it ended I was a new creature. The world was all
   changed for Tom Olivers.”

    (615)


   =Credentials, Negative=--See REALISM, REFRAINING FROM.


   =Credentials of Merit=--See APPRECIATION OF CHARACTER.


   =Credit Refused=--See NEED, REFUSED IN THE HOUR OF.


                         CREEDS, INSECURITY OF

   It is natural to desire a few firm and unshakable beliefs. If we
   can only formulate the eternal verities and tuck them away in
   pigeon-holes ready to our hand when wanted, we feel a certain
   sense of security. To run the fundamental principles into
   molds and have them forever after in cast-iron rigidity and
   indestructibility is surely, we imagine, a consummation devoutly
   to be wished.

   But soon we encounter unexpected and vexatious and puzzling
   difficulties. Truth has a way of losing its trueness by the very
   act of being exprest. Exprest, or squeezed out, it does, indeed,
   too often become; and nothing but an empty husk, a hollow form,
   remains. How often one has the vaguely haunting and curiously
   baffling sense that, if one were to say a certain thing, that
   thing would immediately cease to be so; and, that if one had
   only refrained from a certain other utterance, the thought
   intended would not have lost, so unaccountably, its quality of
   truth! In other words, how many times does truth show itself
   to be of a nature quite too shy to be caught and tamed, too
   slippery to be grasped, too elusive to be held fast! To take a
   homely illustration, Mrs. Smith says to Mrs. Brown, “I am more
   polite than you,” and straightway an assertion that might have
   been true, if unuttered, becomes glaringly false. An able lawyer
   was once arguing a case in court when the judge interrupted
   him by declaring, “That is not the law.” “It was the law, your
   Honor, until your Honor spoke,” was the two-edged rejoinder.
   Some such ironical retort is constantly being flung back at us
   by the inscrutabilities that we attempt to fathom. We know not
   well (tho we are learning) the subtle ways they “keep, and pass,
   and turn again.”

   “Outworn creeds” is a phrase familiar to all. But why have we
   so abundant a heritage of these cast-off garments? Is not their
   undurability owing to the fact that truth is dynamic rather than
   static? We must believe that at every instant of time something
   is true; but that the same thing, stated just so and no
   otherwise, is true for all time, is not so certain, and he who
   depends on a fixt creed, of elaborate pattern, to bear him up
   through all the stormy seas, is likely to find himself clinging
   to a very poor life-preserver.--_The Christian Register._

    (616)


   =Crime and Playgrounds=--See PLAY AND MORALS.


                          CRIME, EPIDEMICS OF

   In the days of bank burglaries--now much less frequent, owing to
   the protections that science has provided for money vaults--it
   was not often that a single robbery was reported; they “came in
   battalions.” This was not because the same gangs engaged in many
   different enterprises, but because a universal similar impulse
   permeated the minds of the criminal class devoted to these
   forms of guilt. A curious study might be made of the causes
   of epidemics of crime. In superstitious times all evils were
   attributed to the influence of adverse stars. This may have been
   an approach to scientific truth, or its advanced shadow. The
   causes of meteorological change must be the causes lying back of
   the pervading disposition at times witnessed to commit peculiar
   classes of crime. A suicidal atmosphere must have its origin in
   some of the secret springs of nature. Advanced speculation has
   recently attributed cyclones, earthquakes, and other terrestrial
   disturbances to great changes in the surface of the sun or
   in the superheated ether surrounding it. A theory quite as
   plausible as this might attribute epidemics of crime to similar
   influences, by which weak reasons are overthrown and murderous
   intents are kindled in excitable minds with destructive
   tendencies. There are causes for all things in life and nature,
   and no study of such causes is in vain.--Chicago _Journal_.

    (617)


                             CRIME EXPOSED

Marshall P. Wilder describes a punishment common in China:

   The cangue is a large square board that fits about the neck,
   and besides being very heavy and uncomfortable, is considered
   a great disgrace, for it has the prisoner’s name and crime
   pasted on it. In order to make the punishment more severe, the
   prisoner is often condemned to be taken to the place where the
   crime was committed and made to stand near the store or house
   where the nature of his crime, as well as his name, is plainly
   to be read by every passer-by. This is a terrible punishment,
   for the Chinese are very sensitive about being publicly
   shamed.--“Smiling ‘Round the World.”

    (618)

   See EVIDENCE, PROVIDENTIAL.


                         CRIME IN FORMER DAYS

   Every week a host of young lads were hanged for theft, and the
   spectacle of a criminal riding through the streets to Tyburn,
   and getting as drunk as he conveniently could upon the way, was
   too common to attract attention. London was called the City of
   the Gallows, for from whatever joint you entered it, by land or
   water, you passed between a lane of gibbets, where the corpses
   of felons hung, rotting and bleaching in the light. Nor was
   crime supprest by this stringency of the law. Highwaymen rode
   into town at nightfall, coolly tying their horses to the palings
   of Hyde Park, and executed their plans of robbery in the very
   presence of the impotent protectors of the public peace. London
   was infested by gangs of youths, whose nightly pastime was to
   bludgeon inoffensive watchmen, and to gouge out the eyes of
   chance travelers. Dean Swift dared not go out after dark, and
   Johnson wrote:

    Prepare for death, if here at night you roam,
    And sign your will before you sup from home.

   Ludgate Hill swarmed with mock parsons, and thousands of
   spurious marriages were celebrated every year.--W. J.
   DAWSON, “The Makers of English Prose.”

    (619)


   =Crime Prevented=--See SCIENCE PREVENTING CRIME.


   =Crime Traced=--See MISERY AN EDUCATOR.


                          CRIME UNPROFITABLE

   “I have talked with murderers, train and stage robbers,
   burglars, pickpockets, hobos, yeggmen and others guilty of
   nearly every crime known,” says Griffith J. Griffith, “yet I
   never found a prisoner but could easily be convinced that a
   criminal career does not pay. A sane young man so convinced can
   be reformed.”

    (620)


   =Criminal Energy=--See DISHONESTY.


   =Criminals Deficient in Conscience=--See CONSCIENCE BENUMBED.


                          CRIMINALS, GAIT OF

All evil traits probably carry with them some bodily signs. Soul and
body are intimately related.

   Dr. Parrachia has made a curious study of the differences
   between criminals and law-abiding citizens, as exhibited by
   their walk. He not only has shown how we may distinguish
   criminals in general, but has laid the beginning of the
   differential diagnosis between various evil-doers. He found
   that in criminals in general (obtained from the study of forty
   criminals) the left pace was longer than the right, the lateral
   deviation of the right foot was greater than that of the left,
   and the angle formed by the axis of the foot with the straight
   line was greater on the left side than on the right. It would
   thus seem that, in general, the gait of a criminal betrays a
   marked preponderance of power of the left foot over the right--a
   true sinistrality. This also agrees with the discovery of Marro
   that criminals are often left-handed.--_Public Opinion._

    (621)


                          CRIMINALS, TRACING

   The tracing of counterfeit bills back to the persons responsible
   for their issue is a curious and exciting employment. The
   experts assigned by the Government to this work are among the
   most skilful members of the Secret Service.

   A bank clerk in Cleveland had detected a counterfeit
   twenty-dollar bill in the deposit of a small retail grocer. An
   expert was sent for and undertook the case.

   He found that the grocer had received the bill from a
   shoe-dealer, who had it from a dentist, who had it from somebody
   else, and so on, until the Secret Service man finally traced
   the bad note to an invalid woman who had used it to pay her
   physician. When questioned, this woman said that the money had
   been sent her by her brother, who lived in New Orleans.

   The sleuth looked up the brother’s antecedents, and soon became
   convinced that he was the man wanted. The brother, however, soon
   proved to the satisfaction of the Secret Service man that his
   suspicions were unfounded. Indeed, it appeared that the money
   had been received by the New Orleans man in part payment of rent
   of a house he owned in Pittsburg. While the sleuth was a bit
   discouraged, he couldn’t give over the case when he had gone so
   far, so he took the next train for Pittsburg.

   The tenant of the house in Pittsburg proved to be a traveling
   oculist, who spent most of his time in the Middle West. The
   Secret Service man had the good luck, however, to catch him just
   as he had returned from a trip; and the man at once recognized
   the bad bill as one that had been given him by a patient in
   Cleveland, the very point whence the sleuth had started.

   The patient was a boss carpenter. The Secret Service man got
   his address from the oculist and went right after the new clue.
   At this point he had a premonition that something was going to
   happen, and he wasn’t disappointed.

   The carpenter, an honest old fellow, said that he had received
   the bill from a certain Parker. The said Parker was the small
   grocer in whose bank deposit the counterfeit had turned up. The
   expert flew to the grocer’s as quickly as a cab would take him,
   and found it closed. He had left town.

   Afterward it was shown beyond question that the grocer was the
   agent of an organized band of counterfeiters. His shop was a
   mere blind. That the bill which he gave the carpenter should get
   back into his own funds after traveling all over the continent
   was one of those miracles of chance for which there is no
   explanation.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (622)


                        CRISES, PREPARATION FOR

Let it not be imagined that the great souls who have made history
by their heroic action and their momentous decisions in moments of
critical exigency were unprepared, or that they played their grand
parts at random. The hour of destiny comes, and the man comes with it,
but he has always been in training for it. He has had his forty days in
the wilderness.

   On the ridge of Leuthen, far up above the plain, Frederick the
   Great through his glass watched the gathering of the enemy’s
   hosts in overwhelming numbers. He only gazed on the terrible
   spectacle five minutes, and then he had thought out the
   magnificent combinations which arranged his plan of battle. Ruin
   fell on the foe and a new era in history was inaugurated; but
   this was only because Frederick had trained himself for years
   for the crisis.

    (623)


                           CRITIC RIDICULED

   A teacher of elocution from New Jersey went to hear Mr. Beecher,
   and when the sermon was closed he crowded himself up to the
   front and said, “Mr. Beecher, I am an elocution teacher from
   the State of New Jersey. I came over to hear the greatest
   American preacher, but I am disappointed, disappointed.” “What
   is the matter now?” said Beecher. “Well, sir, I counted eighty
   grammatical mistakes in your sermon.” Beecher replied, “Is that
   all? I would have wagered this old hat there were over eight
   hundred if you had not told me.” That is a philosophical way
   of looking at it, and treating deservedly a self-inflated and
   imposing upstart of a critic. Beecher could at times read human
   nature intuitively.

    (624)


   =Critical Faculty, The=--See ORIGINALITY.


                               CRITICISM

   It is not necessary for a child to know all about the lenses
   of the eye in order to see its mother’s face, or to understand
   gravity in order to enjoy the summer’s day. We use, enjoy and
   are saved by food and drink and sun long years before we know
   anything about their laws. It is one thing to pick to pieces
   your faith, and another thing to reconstruct it. A thousand
   boys can take a watch to pieces, and not one can put the wheels
   together again.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (625)

   See CYNIC REBUKED; JUDGING, CARE IN.


                          CRITICISM, CARPING

   If he is poor, he is a bad manager. If he is rich, he is
   dishonest.

   If he needs credit, he can’t get it. If he is prosperous, every
   one wants to do him a favor.

   If he’s in politics, it’s for pie. If he is out of politics, you
   can’t place him, and he’s no good for his country.

   If he doesn’t give to charity, he’s stingy. If he does, it’s for
   show.

   If he is actively religious, he is a hypocrite. If he takes no
   interest in religion, he’s a hardened sinner.

   If he shows affection, he’s a soft specimen. If he seems to care
   for no one, he is cold-blooded.

   If he dies young, there was a great future ahead of him. If he
   lives to an old age, he has missed his calling.--_Christian
   Guardian._

    (626)


   =Criticism, Ignorant=--See MEANING, LOGICAL.


                        CRITICISM, INCOMPETENT

   It is an interesting study of human nature to watch a mixt crowd
   as they pass through a gallery of pictures. Some simply express
   admiration at everything; sure that they must be good, or they
   would not be there, they feel safe in giving indiscriminate
   praise. Others spice their approbation with occasional
   criticism. Some utter impulsively their first impressions;
   others, more timid, look silently upon all. The few who, being
   true artists themselves, are best qualified to judge, are
   usually the most reticent. Indeed, they seem more occupied in
   studying than in judging, and more anxious to understand what
   they see than either to criticize or to flatter. Doubtless,
   however, the majority of these spectators are secretly conscious
   of their real incapacity to pronounce judgment, and the wisest
   of them will refrain from doing so, however willingly they may
   express whatever pleasure or preference they feel. They know
   they are there for their own gratification or improvement, not
   to pass sentence upon works which they can only dimly fathom.
   Yet as they pass out of the gallery into the world of living men
   and women how quickly is this respectful diffidence removed!
   He who would not presume to criticize a picture, of which he
   knows but little, will not hesitate to criticize a man or woman
   of whom he knows far less. Willing to admit his inability to
   estimate the work of the painter, he yet feels competent,
   without study or experience, to estimate the noblest and most
   complex work of infinite wisdom.--Philadelphia _Ledger_.

    (627)

   See CHRISTIANITY, CRITICISM OF.


   =Criticism, Indifference to=--See MODESTY.


   =Criticism of Christianity=--See CHRISTIANITY, CRITICISM OF.


                         CRITICISM, UNHELPFUL

   One of the most brilliant of our younger poets was descanting on
   the Chinook vocabulary, in which a Chinook calls an Englishman a
   Chinhog to this day, in memory of King George. And this writer
   says that when they have a young chief whose warpaint is very
   perfect, whose blanket is thoroughly embroidered, whose leggings
   are tied up with exactly the right colors, and who has the
   right kind of star upon his forehead and cheeks, but who never
   took a scalp, never fired an arrow, and never smelled powder,
   but was always found at home in the lodges whenever there was
   anything that scented of war--he says the Chinooks called that
   man by the name of “Boston Cultus.” You have seen these people,
   as I have seen them, as everybody has seen them--people who
   sat in Parker’s and discust every movement of the campaign in
   the late war, and told us that it was all wrong, that we were
   going to the bad, but who never shouldered a musket. They are
   people who tell us that the immigration, that the pope of Rome,
   or the German element, or the Irish element, is going to play
   the dogs with our social system, and yet they never met an
   immigrant on the wharf or had a word of comfort to say to a
   foreigner.--EDWARD EVERETT HALE.

    (628)


   =Cross Anticipated=--See CALVARY, ANTICIPATING.


                             CROSS CENTRAL

   It is said that two famous enemies of Christianity were once
   talking together of a plan for the reconstruction of religion.
   They believed only in the enjoyment of the life that now is.
   They talked of the building of a temple which would express
   the religious impulse and yet lay stress on the glory of the
   life that now is. And after they had talked of marvelous music,
   forever in the major key, they admitted that something was
   lacking in their scheme. “I know what it is,” finally declared
   one. “It is that hymn, ‘O Sacred Head Now Wounded.’ Without
   that there is a fatal lack of beauty and of power.” And this
   goes down pretty far toward the center. The compelling beauty
   of Christianity is in its doctrine of self-sacrifice. The
   cross sets the Christian teaching on high.--FRANCIS J.
   MCCONNELL.

    (629)


                          CROSS, CHARM OF THE

   Rev. Edward Payson Scott, Baptist missionary in Assam, was
   strongly moved to visit a wild hill tribe--the Nagas--three
   days’ journey from his station, whereas yet he had made only a
   start in the Naga language and had to take a Naga teacher along.
   He was strongly urged by the British resident officer not to run
   such risk, but he could not be deterred; and, when an escort of
   soldiers was offered him, he firmly declined, as it would defeat
   the very end in view, which was to go as a messenger of peace.
   A military escort would give a false impression of his whole
   spirit and motive.

   So with a native companion he set out, and when they reached the
   base of the mountain ridge where the native village crowned the
   summit, and began the ascent, the alarmed villagers forming in
   battle-line, waved their spears in menace, the chief crying out,
   “Halt! we know you! You are the man of the British Queen, come
   to make us prisoners and carry off our children. Come no nearer!”

   The missionary drew out his violin, and began to sing in the
   native tongue, “Alas, and did my Savior bleed!” When he had sung
   one verse, the chief and his warriors had already thrust their
   spears into the ground and broken ranks. As Mr. Scott sang
   on, about the amazing pity, grace, love shown when the Maker
   died for the sin of the creature, the wild men began to creep
   down the hillside, nearer and nearer; and the chief cried out,
   “Where did you learn that? Sing us more; we never heard the like
   before.” The savages were subdued. The stranger was safe from
   their spears, and welcomed to their huts and best hospitality.
   The cross has never lost its charm. (Text.)--_Missionary
   Review of the World._

    (630)


                            CROSS GLORIOUS

   My God, I have never thanked thee for my thorn. I have thanked
   thee a thousand times for my roses, but not once for my thorn.
   I have been looking forward to a world where I shall get
   compensation for my cross, but I have never thought of my cross
   as itself a present glory. Thou divine Love whose human path
   has been perfected through sufferings, teach me the glory of my
   cross, teach me the value of my thorn.--GEORGE MATHESON.

    (631)


                          CROSS IMPERISHABLE

   Matthew Arnold had a brother-in-law, Mr. Cropper, who lived
   in Liverpool, and attended Sefton Park Church, where Dr. John
   Watson (“Ian Maclaren”) ministered. Visiting Mr. Cropper, Mr.
   Arnold accompanied him to church one Sunday morning, which
   proved to be Arnold’s last Sunday on earth. Dr. Watson preached
   on “The Shadow of the Cross”; and the congregation afterward
   sang the familiar hymn, “When I survey the wondrous cross.” At
   lunch that day Mr. Arnold referred to an illustration which
   the preacher had drawn from the Riviera earthquake. “In one
   village,” said Dr. Watson, “the huge crucifix above the altar,
   with a part of the chancel, remained unshaken amid the ruins,
   and round the cross the people sheltered.” “Yes,” remarked
   Arnold in speaking of this, “the cross remains, and in the
   straits of the soul makes its ancient appeal.” (Text.)

    (632)


                              CROSS, THE

Many preachers, while they do not ignore the cross, dim or obscure it
by eliminating from it the element of redemption. But however obscured,
it will emerge in human life, for the cross is the center of faith.

   One of the most magnificent ecclesiastical structures in the
   world is the mosque of Hagia Sophia, or “Holy Wisdom,” commonly
   known in our language as St. Sophia. This was originally the
   famous temple erected by Constantine in 325, as a Christian
   church. But it was destroyed by fire in 404 in a riot connected
   with the exile of Chrysostom. Rebuilt at once, in 530 it was
   again burnt to the ground, and the present edifice was reared
   by Justinian, and on Christmas day of 537 was dedicated as a
   Christian cathedral. In 1453 it was converted into a mosque.
   Jesus was put aside for Mohammed, the cross was supplanted by
   the crescent, and the Bible was dethroned by the Koran. Yet tho
   in many places the cross is wholly hidden under plaster with
   fine filigree work, here and there it can be perceived. (Text.)

    (633)


                           CROSS, THE VEILED

   The cross of Jesus Christ was to the Greeks foolishness and a
   stumbling-block of the Jews. They could not see its meaning;
   just as I have walked out on the porch of a north Georgia home
   two hours before day, and in the dim starlight I could see
   only the faint outline of mountain and hill. I could not tell
   what they were. It was an indistinct picture that had in it no
   meaning to me. I have gone back to my room and after a while
   have walked out on the porch again. The sun had risen on the
   scene and bathed hill and mountain and valley in a flood of
   light, and then I looked and saw hills and mountains and valleys
   and streams that mine eyes had never seen before.--“Famous
   Stories of Sam P. Jones.”

    (634)


                        CROWD AND THE EXCEPTION

Sam Walter Foss sings of the man who comes up from the crowd in these
verses:

    There’s a dead hum of voices all saying the same thing,
    And our forefathers’ songs are the songs that we sing,
    And the deeds by our fathers and grandfathers done
    Are done by the son of the son of the son,
      And our heads in contrition are bowed.
    And lo, a call for a man who shall make all things new
    Goes down through the throng. See! he rises in view!
    Make room for the man who shall make all things new!
      For the man comes up from the crowd.

    And where is the man who comes up from the throng,
    Who does the new deed and sings the new song,
    Who makes the old world as a world that is new?
    And who is the man? It is you! It is you!
      And our praise is exultant and proud.
    We are waiting for you there--for you are the man!
    Come up from the jostle as soon as you can;
    Come up from the crowd there, for you are the man--
      The man who comes up from the crowd. (Text.)

    (635)


                        CROWN, THE CHRISTIAN’S

A true Christian gladly works for the souls of the people without hope
of any earthly fee or reward, but such an elevated policy naturally
appears aimless to the selfish or unenlightened worldling.

   Gipsy Smith says: “My father was once preaching in the open air
   at Leytonstone. A coster in his donkey-cart shouted out, ‘Go it,
   old party, you will get ’arf a crown for that job.’ My father
   stopt his address for a moment, and said quietly, ‘No, young
   man, you are wrong; my Master never gives half-crowns. He gives
   whole crowns.’” (Text.)

    (636)


                            CROWNING CHRIST

   “Why did you put your five-dollar goldpiece in the missionary
   collection, instead of some silver?” Davie was asked. “Because,”
   he replied, “as the congregation sang, ‘Bring forth the royal
   diadem, and crown him Lord of all,’ I imagined that I could hear
   his steps coming down the aisle to receive his crown, and I did
   not want Him to wear a copper crown, or a silver crown, but a
   gold crown.” A part of the missionary work is giving gold for
   Christ’s coronation.

    (637)


   =Crucified=--See MARTYR SPIRIT.


                              CRUEL GREED

A missionary from a north China city wrote to the _Missionary Review
of the World_:

   Recently some professional procurers going the rounds of the
   cities of northern China buying girls for the brothels of
   Shanghai stopt here in their diabolical quest. They negotiated
   a sale with a mother living near us for her seventeen-year-old
   daughter. As this daughter’s feet were not small enough to
   command the sum desired, the mother arose at midnight while
   the children were sleeping and proceeded to beat the feet of
   the daughter in question to a pulp. The agonizing pain, the
   heartrending screams were of no avail. The feet were bound into
   a smaller compass by this process and a more advantageous sale
   expedited.

    (638)

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. William H. Leslie, for many years a missionary in the Kongo,
recently confirmed many of the stories of the atrocities that have
marked the rule of the Belgians in that country. This is what he says:

   With my own eyes I have witnessed many of the most horrible
   examples of cruelty practised upon the poor natives in that
   country. I have seen natives with one hand cut off and I have
   seen them with both cut off, and in many cases the poor victims
   were children.

   Dr. Leslie also said that much of the cruelty had been practised
   in order to impress upon the blacks the necessity of their
   bringing to market the rubber wanted by their persecutors, and
   to emphasize the dire results that would follow their failure to
   do so.

    (639)


                           CRUELTY, CHINESE

   There is a cruel custom which prevails in some districts in
   South China in time of drought. A large collection of brass
   locks is made, and each is marked with a Chinese character.
   One iron lock is added to the pile, and duplicate slips are
   distributed among all the male population of the villages. The
   unfortunate man whose slip holds the same writing on it as the
   iron lock must have a slit made in the front of his throat and
   through this, the bar of the iron lock passed. He is considered
   to be in some way the cause of the drought and must wear this
   lock until rain comes. Blood-poisoning often carries the victim
   off before the drought is broken.

As fast as Christian mission work prevails in China, these cruelties
disappear.

    (640)


   =Cruelty from the Past=--See MUTUAL SUFFERING.


                          CRUELTY IN WORSHIP

   Rev. W. B. Simpson, missionary among the Tamil people, writes of
   a most inhuman sacrifice, which was being offered in a village
   near Kumbakonam. A goat is brought, and its mouth tied up to
   prevent its crying out. Nails are driven into its nostrils, its
   mouth, ears, eyes, and the other two openings of the body. Then
   a hand-beating on its poor body takes place, which must be kept
   up till death comes to free the animal. This, the people claim,
   is worshiping God according to the Vedas, altho there is no
   foundation for it in any of its pages.

    (641)


                           CRUELTY TO BIRDS

The following is reported by the _Daily Sentinel_, of Fairmount,
Minnesota:

   A mother dove had been the target of some small boy. The
   bullet had passed through her breast, and had left her only
   strength enough to flutter homeward and reach the nest, where a
   half-grown fledgling awaited her coming.

   Dying, she had snuggled up against her little one, her
   life-blood pulsing out over her own white breast and against
   that of her young. And there, with eyes staring wide, she
   breathed her last, and the fledgling starved, and then froze.
   The two were found with their heads prest together as in a last
   embrace.

   The owner of the dove-house brought them down-town just as they
   rested in the nest, and the sight and the suffering of which it
   spoke were enough to melt the hardest heart.

   The boy with the rifle may cause a like tragedy again, and many
   times.

    (642)


                          CRUELTY TO CHILDREN

Edward Gilleat tells of some of the horrors of the African slave-trade:

   Children are thrown with the baggage on the camels if unable to
   walk; but if they are five or six years of age the poor little
   creatures are obliged to trot on all day with bleeding feet.
   The daily allowance of food was sometimes a quart of dates in
   the morning and half a pint of flour, made into a bazeen, in
   the evening. None of the owners ever moved without their whips,
   which were in constant use. Drinking too much water, bringing
   too little wood, or falling asleep before the cooking was
   finished were considered almost capital crimes. No excuses were
   taken; the whip exacted a fearful penalty. Sometimes the little
   children would cry bitterly for water when the hot east wind was
   blowing; if they fell down, the Moors would haul them up roughly
   and drag them along violently, beating them incessantly till
   they had overtaken the camels.--“Heroes of Modern Crusades.”

    (643)


                           CRYING BENEFICIAL

   A French physician contends that groaning and crying are two
   grand operations by which nature allays anguish; that those
   patients who give way to their natural feelings more speedily
   recover from accidents and operations than those who suppose it
   unworthy in a man to betray such symptoms of cowardice as either
   to groan or cry. He tells of a man who reduced his pulse from
   126 to 60 in the course of a few hours by giving full vent to
   his emotion. If people are unhappy about anything, let them go
   into their rooms and comfort themselves with a loud boo-hoo,
   and they will feel one hundred per cent better afterward. In
   accordance with this, the crying of children should not be too
   greatly discouraged. What is natural is nearly always useful.
   (Text.)--_American Homeopathist._

    (644)


   =Cultivation=--See SELECTION BY PURPOSE; SUCCESS BY EXPERIMENTATION.


   =Culture Counts=--See TRAINING.


   =Culture Not Everything=--See GENIUS.


                                CUNNING

   Almost always when you meet a fox in the woods he pretends not
   to see you, but changes his course casually, as if, perhaps,
   he had just heard a mouse over there among the stumps. He does
   not increase his speed in the slightest degree until he is
   behind some tree or rock; then away he goes at a tremendous
   rate, always keeping the tree between you and himself until well
   out of gunshot.--WITMER STONE and WILLIAM EVERETT
   CRAM, “American Animals.”

    (645)


   =Cunning Among Animals=--See SUBTLETY AMONG ANIMALS.


   =Cure by Reversal=--See REVERSED ATTITUDE.


   =Cure from Bible Reading=--See MIND-HEALING.


                               CURIOSITY

   The catbird has the courage of his convictions, and one of these
   convictions is that he has the right to the satisfaction of an
   ungovernable and enormous curiosity. Bait your bird-trap in the
   woods with something which strikes a bird as a curiosity that
   courts immediate investigation and you will catch a catbird.
   Other birds might start for it, but the catbird would distance
   them.--WINTHROP PACKARD, “Wild Pastures.”

    (646)


   =Curiosity in a Boy=--See CONSCIENCE A MONITOR.


                        CURIOSITY, RATIONALE OF

   When the child learns that he can appeal to others to eke out
   his store of experiences, so that, if objects fail to respond
   interestingly to his experiments, he may call upon persons to
   provide interesting material, a new epoch sets in. “What is
   that?” “Why?” become the unfailing signs of a child’s presence.
   At first this questioning is hardly more than a projection into
   social relations of the physical overflow which earlier kept
   the child pushing and pulling, opening and shutting. He asks in
   succession what holds up the house, what holds up the soil that
   holds the house, what holds up the earth that holds the soil;
   but his questions are not evidence of any genuine consciousness
   of rational connections. His why is not a demand for scientific
   explanation; the motive behind it is simply eagerness for a
   larger acquaintance with the mysterious world in which he is
   placed. The search is not for a law or principle, but only for a
   bigger fact. Yet there is more than a desire to accumulate just
   information or heap up disconnected items, altho sometimes the
   interrogating habit threatens to degenerate into a mere disease
   of language. In the feeling, however dim, that the facts which
   directly meet the senses are not the whole story, that there is
   more behind them and more to come from them, lies the germ of
   intellectual curiosity.--JOHN DEWEY, “How We Think.”

    (647)


   =Current, Double=--See JOY AND SORROW.


                           CURRENTS OF LIFE

   The waters of the Pacific are tempered for a certain width
   with a warm current flowing north from the tropics. The
   temperature of Alaska is affected by it, and the result of its
   genial influence is increased vegetation and civilization. But
   for this life-giving stream Alaska would be as destitute and
   uninhabitable as Labrador.

But for the enriching stream of Christian life the whole world would
now be a moral Labrador. (Text.)

    (648)


                          CURRENTS, UTILIZING

   Sir Wyville Thompson and, later, Sir John Murray, unraveled some
   of the mysteries of the hidden depths of the sea, such as the
   Gulf stream and the waters that wash the Cape of Good Hope. They
   have found that there are currents flowing over one another in
   different directions, as in the case of air-currents above us.
   The aim is to be able to utilize these cross-currents, both of
   air and water, for the benefit of man.

Still more were it wise to use the many and even the contrary currents
of life so as to make all serve man’s best interests.

    (649)


   =Curse of Drink=--See DRINK AND NATIVE RACES.


                           CURSING FORBIDDEN

   Bishop Benzler used to be a great favorite of the German
   Emperor, but recently the bishop fell into one of those quarrels
   about burial-grounds that in Germany, as well as in England
   and Wales, seem to have a great power of making people forget
   Christian charity. The bishop, because a Protestant had been
   buried in this ground, went to the extreme step of declaring
   that the ground had been desecrated, and decided to curse it.

   The Emperor was furious when he heard of this, and when the
   bishop was imprudent enough to demand an audience, he let
   loose upon the head of the unfortunate ecclesiastic a flood
   of eloquent wrath which submerged him. Here is the principal
   passage:

   “Your Reverence,” said the Emperor, “has asked for an audience,
   and I have granted it because I, also, have a few words to
   say to you. Before leaving Alsace-Lorraine I must tell your
   Reverence that your attitude has greatly displeased me. You were
   represented to me as a mild and peaceable man; your actions
   prove the contrary. You have done worse things than the worst
   fanatic. You have curst a cemetery situated on German soil, the
   German soil over which I rule. Do not forget, your Reverence,
   that I, as German Emperor, will never tolerate that even one
   inch of German soil should be curst--no, not one inch! It is a
   bishop’s duty to bless, and the moment you begin to curse you
   cease to be fit for your high position.” (Text.)

    (650)


                         CURVES OF TEMPTATION

   An efficient baseball player tries to get at the secret of the
   pitcher’s curves; and the player in the game of life will look
   well to the curves of the world. This is a good world, and the
   men and women in it are of royal lineage--we are of God; but the
   glorious gift of liberty makes possible temptation and sin.

   Because you ought to do right it is possible that you may
   yield to temptation, and failing to overcome a world curve be
   compelled to give up your place at the homeplate.--T. E.
   POTTERTON.

    (651)


                                CUSTOM

   Whether in architecture, or in education, or in dress, or in
   other affairs of life, custom rules in Korea. Custom explains
   everything.

   “What about this absurdity?” “Oh, it’s custom.” “Yes, but see
   here, why are the dead propt up on sticks and not buried?” “Oh,
   it’s custom.” “Do you sometimes marry off children as early as
   nine years of age?” “Yes, that’s custom.”

   The reader must learn this word if he would understand old
   Korea, and if he would read into much of the life of the East
   still The forefather may have been an imbecile, or may have
   walked in his sleep, but what he did has come down, down to the
   present, and custom maintains that it is the sane and right
   thing to do.

   “Why do you feed all these idle tramps, who come calling at your
   door, and you a poor man?” I once asked of my host.

   He replied, “It’s custom, and for my life I can’t get out of
   it.” “What about these dolmens set up all through these valleys
   here like tables of the gods; what do they mean?” “They were set
   up by the Chinese invader, thousands of years ago, to crush out
   the ground influence that brought forth Korean warriors.”

   “You mean that they have stifled out the life of the nation
   for all these centuries?” “Yes.” “Then why don’t you roll them
   off and get back your lost vigor?” “Oh, that’s no use now,
   never do.” “As it was, is now, and ever shall be,” is the only
   reply.--JAMES S. GALE, “Korea in Transition.”

    (652)


   =Custom, Disregarded=--See PILOT, NEED OF.


                           CUSTOM, FORCE OF

Dr. Harlan P. Beach says:

   In China there are customs which are more important than
   etiquette. I met a man who had been shaking from head to
   feet “You have had chills and fever, haven’t you?” I said
   sympathizingly. He came very near taking my head off, because
   there is a special god who runs chills and fever, and if he
   hears a man has chills and fever and is getting over it, he
   will give him another shake. I had gone against their deadly
   custom. Another incident of the same sort happened one day when
   a doctor of divinity saw a cheap sedan chair and bought it. A
   millionaire globe-trotter used it that day for sight-seeing,
   and when he reached the missionary compound, he exclaimed, “I
   have been outrageously treated by the heathen. The whole city
   was out laughing at me. As soon as I appeared, every man rushed
   out of his shop, and the streets were in an uproar.” The doctor
   of divinity asked his native teacher for an explanation. Now,
   a teacher is never supposed to smile from one day’s end to
   another, but that dignified teacher, glass, goggles, and all,
   doubled up with laughter when he saw the chair. “You really must
   excuse me,” he said, “but that kind of a chair is used only in
   funeral processions for the spirit of the dead to ride in.” It
   was as tho a man should ride through our city sitting up in a
   hearse.

    (653)


   =Custom Upheld=--See EXPERIENCE A HARD TEACHER.


   =Customs, Oriental=--See GESTURES AND USE OF THE HANDS IN THE EAST.


   =Customs, Value of=--See EXPERIENCE A HARD TEACHER.


   =Cycles in Nature=--See INVISIBLE, THE, MADE VISIBLE.


                             CYNIC REBUKED

The late A. T. Gordon, D.D., told this incident:

   A certain infidel, a blacksmith, was in the habit when any one
   came into his shop of telling what some Christian brother or
   deacon or minister had done, and say, “That is one of their
   fine Christians we hear so much about!”

   An old gentleman, an eminent Christian, one day went into the
   shop; the infidel soon began about what some Christians had
   done. The old deacon stood a few moments, and listened, and then
   quietly asked the infidel if he had read the story in the Bible
   about the rich man and Lazarus.

   “Yes, many a time; and what of it?”

   “Well, you remember about the dogs; how they came and licked the
   sores of Lazarus? Now,” said the deacon, “do you know, you just
   remind me of those dogs--content to merely lick the Christian’s
   sores.”

   The blacksmith grew suddenly pensive, and hasn’t had much to say
   about failing Christians since. (Text.)

    (654)




                                   D


                         DAILY CHARACTER WORK

   In character-building, just as in housebuilding, every day’s
   work ought to count for good. If the house builders do one day’s
   work carelessly, dishonestly, or in violation of the architect’s
   plan, the result is liable to be serious, no matter how well the
   work is done thereafter. An unsound spot in the wall, a beam
   not properly placed, or any other feature of a misspent working
   day, will render questionable the soundness and safety of the
   entire structure when the strain of use and occupation comes. So
   the wasted day of one’s life may fix a flaw in the character,
   which will expose that character to grave perils, when certain
   temptations and trials assail it.--_The Interior._

    (655)


   =Dancing=--See DEGRADATION; RISK SHIFTED.


   =Danger=--See LOVE AS A SIDING; QUIETNESS IN DANGER.


                           DANGER, AVOIDING

   Birds who sleep on the water--and they are numerous--are
   always in danger of drifting to the shore, where lies their
   greatest danger. In the Zoological Gardens of London it has
   been discovered that ducks and other water-lovers have evolved
   a way of avoiding this danger. Tucking one foot up among their
   feathers, they keep the other in the water and gently paddle,
   with the result that they revolve in circles and keep at a
   safe distance from land, a kind of sleepwalking turned to good
   account.--OLIVE THORNE MILLER, “The Bird Our Brother.”

    (656)


                           DANGER, COURTING

   A few years ago a tenderfoot went out West looking for grizzly.
   He was all togged out in the newest style of hunting-suit, and
   dawned like an incredible vision, on the astonished inhabitants
   west of the Missouri. He asked them where he could find a
   grizzly, and they told him reverently that at a certain place
   not far from there grizzlies were numerous and would come if you
   whistled. Light-heartedly he took his way to the place indicated
   and two days later they buried his mangled remains in the local
   cemetery. Over his innocent young head they erected a tombstone
   whereon they rudely carved this epitaph:

   “He whistled for the grizzly, and the grizzly came.”

    (657)


                           DANGER FROM BELOW

Moral disaster to character is often wrought by the inrush of animal
tendencies stored in the lower nature of man.

   At various times during the construction of the Simplon Tunnel
   work has been retarded by the influx of water from underground
   springs. In the autumn of 1901 a stream of water burst into
   the Italian workings, and, attaining a discharge of nearly
   8,000 gallons per minute, speedily converted the two headings
   into canals. Several months elapsed before the flow could be
   overcome. (Text.)--_The Scientific American._

    (658)


                            DANGER LESSENED

   The danger of fire on the great transatlantic steamship is no
   longer to be dreaded. Fire in a compartment can be isolated
   by the closing of the bulkhead doors, and the flames may then
   be fought by forcing into the burning section of the hull
   carbonic-acid gas, steam and water. Fires occur from time to
   time on liners but they are extinguished so readily, and are
   so easily confined, that the passengers seldom know anything
   about them. Should an explosion take place in the engine-room
   of a modern steamship, the doors would close automatically,
   preventing the escape of steam and fire.

No such devices avail with the human soul. A man can not allow the fire
of lust or sin in one compartment of his being and then keep it out of
the remainder. The old doctrine of total depravity was based on this
unity and totality of character, such that a taint at one point was
believed to be a taint of the whole nature.

    (659)


   =Danger, Rushing Into=--See WILFULNESS.


                      DANGER STIMULATING EXERTION

In the homeward voyage of the Atlantic fleet, on its cruise around the
world, a historian of its experiences tells of a rescue of one of the
sailors in a great storm that arose. The storm was at its height and
there ran through the fleet a report that the _Minnesota_ had
lost a man overboard. The signal, indicating that fact, went up to the
foremast and the fleet stopt.

   Could they save the man? It was noticed that the _Minnesota_
   swung around a little, as if to afford a lee, and the _Vermont_
   following held true. A life-buoy had been thrown to the
   struggling man, and he, being a good swimmer, caught it, and
   drifted down toward the _Vermont_. Those on the _Vermont_ saw
   him and ran their bow up close to him, turned it a little so
   as to afford shelter, and were preparing to lower a boat for
   him. A life-line was thrown overboard, and, to the astonishment
   of those on the _Vermont_, the man left the life-buoy and swam
   for the line. Those on board shouted to him not to do it; but
   he took the chance, swam to the life-line and wrapt it around
   his wrist and was drawn on board the _Vermont_. The next day we
   heard that there was a similar rescue by the _Kentucky_ of a man
   lost from the _Kearsarge_.

The imminent danger caused strenuous exertion. Similarly the man in
moral peril can only keep out of danger by exerting all his powers.
(Text.)

    (660)


                               DARKNESS

   It is one of the many marvels of wireless telegraphy that the
   ether waves which carry its messages, unlike light waves,
   suffer no absorption in mist or fog. Quite the opposite, in
   fact, is the case, for the effect on them of clear sunshine is
   so marked that they can be sent with equal initial power only
   less than half the distance by day as by night. For this reason
   press dispatches and long-distance messages sent by wireless
   telegraphy are, whenever possible, committed to the ether waves
   after sunset.

“He knoweth what is in the darkness.” This is what the prophet says
in connection with the affirmation, “He revealeth the deep and secret
things.” We must not imagine that darkness is symbolical only of evil.
The shadow is as beneficent as the sunbeam. (Text.)

    (661)

       *       *       *       *       *

The love of evil prowlers for the darkness is not confined to the
insects named in the extract. It is also a characteristic of those who
hunt men’s souls; the saloon-keeper thrives best by his night trade.

   Tarantulas are night prowlers; they do all their hunting after
   dark, dig their holes, and, indeed, carry on all the various
   business of their life in the night-time. The occasional one
   found walking about in daytime has made a mistake, someway,
   and he blunders around quite like an owl in the sunshine.
   (Text.)--VERNON L. KELLOGG, “Insect Stories.”

    (662)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A whimsical treatise entitled, “William Ramsay’s Vindication of
   Astrology,” propounds the absurd theory that the absence of the
   sun is not the cause of night, but that there are tenebrificous
   stars by whose influence night is brought on, and which ray out
   darkness and obscurity upon the earth as the sun does light.

Are there not some men and some institutions that shed darkness rather
than light on the world? (Text.)

    (663)

Those who love darkness rather than light are morally blind. Here is a
case of physical blindness:

   Richmond, Va., has a nineteen-year-old boy, Audrey Wilson, who
   is totally blind in the day, but can see like a cat at night.
   He can speed a bicycle where ordinary persons have to walk with
   caution; but in the day he gropes about, able only vaguely
   to distinguish any object and with no discrimination as to
   colors. He is quite a possum hunter. He can easily distinguish
   the animals in the trees without the aid of a lantern.
   Needless to say, young Wilson is in great demand by possum
   hunters.--_Leslie’s Weekly._

    (664)

   See SHADOW; SOLITUDE, LESSON OF.


                     DARKNESS DEVELOPING CHARACTER

   Darkness seems to be as necessary to life and growth in this
   world as is light. An earnest, tireless worker for Christ who
   has recently suffered through months of illness, writes a cheery
   word of sympathy to a fellow sufferer, and adds about herself:
   “It is a long time since I have done a day’s work; it is only a
   half-hour’s work, or maybe fifteen minutes at a time. And many
   days have been in a dark room. I wonder, sometimes, if a ‘dark
   room’ is as necessary for the developing of character as it is
   for the developing of negatives. If so, perhaps a time will come
   when I can look back upon the dark-room days with thankfulness.
   Just now, I want to work.” To wait and to trust, if God directs
   that, even while one longs to be out in the light and at work,
   is to gain and grow in the development which only the dark room
   can give. (Text.)

    (665)


   =Darkness Frightens=--See FEAR OF MAN.


                          DARKNESS, GROWTH IN

   There is a darkness which helps and sweetens. Disappointments,
   difficulties, discouragements, and all things dark, come to us
   apparently to depress us, but these are part of the experience
   which helps us. Black charcoal will keep water sweet. Bulbs must
   be buried in the darkness if they are to grow. In the winter
   a florist endeavored with success to grow some bulbs without
   placing them in the ground. He gathered some small stones and
   put them into basins, placing the bulbs on the top of the
   stones. Then he poured in sufficient water to touch the bulbs,
   and to conserve the sweetness of the water he introduced little
   pieces of charcoal among the stones. He then placed the basin in
   a dark cupboard and kept them there for ten weeks, and when he
   took them out the green leaves of the bulbs were showing. (Text.)

    (666)


                        DARKNESS, INFLUENCE OF

   The nature of most birds seems so full of vitality and gladness
   that the nocturnal habits of certain species make a more
   melancholy impression than is their due. The nightingale’s song
   is essentially strong and spirited; but the bird has acquired
   a lasting reputation for dolorousness, partly owing to the
   influence of darkness and solitude on the mind of the midnight
   listener, but largely because of its apparent preference for
   night over day. Half the impression of melancholy vanishes from
   the nightingale’s nocturnal song, once the hearer has learned
   to recognize the same music in the confusing midday chorus. The
   owl’s reputation, which is sinister rather than merely mournful,
   is equally little deserved. We do not set down the jackdaw as a
   maleficent fowl for haunting church-yards and ruins, or the jay
   for its harshness of voice; but both these qualities have been
   enough to excite an historic prejudice against owls. Yet, if
   once the associations of old superstitions are dispelled, owls
   are recognized as among the most companionable of birds, and
   their cries in the winter nights as some of the most heartening
   sounds in nature.--London _Times_.

    (667)


                          DAUGHTERS ESTIMATED

   The woman’s place in Korea is, first as daughter, one of
   contempt. A missionary’s little six-year-old once came to him
   with tears in her eyes and said: “Papa, I have a question.”
   “Yes, what is it?” “Are you sorry that I wasn’t a boy?” “Well, I
   should say not; I wouldn’t trade you for a dozen boys. But why
   do you ask?”

   She said, “The Koreans were talking just now, and they pointed
   at me and said, ‘What a pity that she wasn’t a boy!’”--JAMES
   S. GALE, “Korea in Transition.”

    (668)


   =Dawn Eternal=--See SOUL FLIGHT.


                        DAWN OF CHRISTIAN LIGHT

   It is related that near the North Pole, the night lasting for
   months, when the people expect the day is about to dawn,
   some messengers go up to the highest point to watch; and when
   they see the first streak of day, they put on their brightest
   possible apparel, and embrace each other and say, “Behold the
   sun.” The cry goes all around the land, “Behold the sun.” We see
   signs and wonders being done through Jesus. And as we see the
   dawning of the light in almost every nation under heaven, let us
   cry out to every human soul, “Behold the sun.” (Text.)

    (669)


                               DAYBREAK

The poem found below, by P. Habberton Fulham, in London _Outlook_,
gives a striking figure that would well symbolize a human experience in
passing from a season of darkness and trouble into one of joy and light:

    As some great captain, ere the morn be red,
      Might watch his tired ranks sleeping in the dew,
      Linger a moment, with some sense of rue,
    Then bid réveillé sound o’er quick and dead--
    So the loth sun-god leaves his cloudy bed,
      Then, swift the heavy hangings striding through,
      Bids the dawn’s silver bugles sound anew,
    His golden banners streaming overhead--
    Like camp-fire smoke the mist of morning stirs,
      Like strewed arms seem the dewy glistenings,
      And, as that shining clarion peals on high,
    Up spring the trees like bright-faced warriors,
      Behind him each his cloak of shadow flings,
      And one great shout of color shakes the sky! (Text.)

    (670)


                           DAY BY DAY LIVING

These words found in the _Church Advocate_ are by Adelaide A.
Proctor:

    Do not look at life’s long sorrow;
      See how small each moment’s pain;
    God will help thee for to-morrow,
      So each day begin again.
    Every hour that fleets so slowly
      Has its task to do or bear;
    Luminous the crown and holy,
      When each gem is set with care.

    Do not linger with regretting,
      Or for passing hours despond;
    Nor, thy daily toil forgetting,
      Look too eagerly beyond.
    Hours are golden links, God’s token,
      Reaching heaven; but, one by one,
    Take them, lest the chain be broken
      Ere the pilgrimage be done.

    (671)


                          DAY-BY-DAY VIRTUES

The prayer contained in these verses, by Ethelwyn Wetherald, is a good
one for everybody to offer:

    For strength we ask
    For the ten thousand times repeated task,
      The endless smallnesses of every day.

    No, not to lay
      My life down in the cause I cherish most,
      That were too easy. But whate’er it cost,

    To fail no more
    In gentleness toward the ungentle, nor
      In love toward the unlovely, and to give

    Each day I live,
      To every hour with outstretched hand its meed
      Of not-to-be-regretted thought or deed.

    (672)


                        DAY, THE BASKET OF THE

Priscilla Leonard is the author of these lines found in the Pittsburg
_Christian Advocate_:

    Into the basket of thy day
    Put each thing good and each thing gay
    That thou canst find along thy way.

    Neglect no joy, however small,
    And it shall verily befall
    Thy day can scarcely hold them all.

    Within the basket of thy day
    Let nothing evil find its way,
    And let no frets and worries stay.

    So shall each day be brave and fair,
    Holding of joy its happy share,
    And finding blessings everywhere.

    (673)


   =Deaconesses=--See PERSONAL WORK.


                          DEAD, INFLUENCE OF

   Oh, tell me not that they are dead--that generous host, that
   airy army of invisible heroes! They hover as a cloud of
   witnesses above this nation. Are they dead that yet speak louder
   than we can speak, and a more universal language? Are they
   dead that yet act? Are they dead that yet move upon society,
   and inspire the people with nobler motives and more heroic
   patriotism? Every mountain and hill shall have its treasured
   name, every river shall keep some solemn title, every valley
   and every lake shall cherish its honored register; and, till
   the mountains are worn out, and the rivers forget to flow, till
   the clouds are weary of replenishing springs, and the springs
   forget to gush, and the rills to sing, shall their names be
   kept fresh with reverent honors which are inscribed upon the
   book of national remembrance.--HENRY WARD BEECHER,
   _Evangelical Messenger_.

    (674)


   =Dead, Number of the=--See CEMETERY, THE EARTH AS A.


                         DEAD, RESPECT FOR THE

   The Chinese have such respect for the dead that they will live
   in poverty during life to pay for elaborate ceremonies at the
   time of death. An old carpenter whose shop adjoined the church
   in Tsicheo, in a time of business prosperity acquired for
   himself a beautiful coffin valued at four hundred thousand cash.
   (About $800.) Flood, disease and two worthless sons brought him
   to poverty, so that he was unable to pay the yearly rental of
   twenty-two dollars for his shop. Nevertheless, he was unwilling
   to part with his coffin, tho it would have given him a roof over
   his head for ten years.

   In this same town a very poor Christian woman was forced to
   become a beneficiary of the church, because relatives who owed
   her a year’s wages would not pay. When she passed away, however,
   they paid their long-standing debt in a coffin and funeral
   accessories ungrudgingly.

    (675)


                        DEAD, THE, LIVE BEYOND

    He is not dead, but only lieth sleeping
      In the sweet refuge of his Master’s breast,
    And far away from sorrow, toil, and weeping
      He is not dead, but only taking rest.

    What tho the highest hopes he dearly cherished
      All faded gently as the setting sun;
    What tho our own fond expectations perished
      Ere yet life’s noblest labors seemed begun.

    What tho he standeth at no earthly altar,
      Yet in white raiment, on the golden floor,
    Where love is perfect, and no step can falter,
      He serveth as a priest for evermore!

    O glorious end of life’s short day of sadness,
      O blessed course so well and nobly run!
    O home of true and everlasting gladness,
      O crown unfading! and so early won!

    Tho tears will fall we bless thee, O our Father,
      For the dear one forever with the blest,
    And wait the Easter dawn when thou shalt gather
      Thine own, long parted, to their endless rest. (Text.)

    (676)


                            DEAD THO ALIVE

There are many “dead” men walking about who do not know they are dead.

   An illustration of the logic of Judge O’Connor is best shown
   in the case of a man who had looked long and lovingly on the
   flowing bowl. He fell into a deep pit dug by workmen while
   fixing the bridge over the Mohawk River. Several policemen with
   ropes got the man out and he was arrested. Drunk and disorderly
   was the charge against him when he stood before Judge O’Connor
   somewhat sobered and chastened. “You were drunk last night,”
   said the court. “No, sir, your honor, I wasn’t drunk.” “Why, you
   must have been drunk,” said the court. “If you had not been, you
   would have been killed by that fall.” “Shure, I wazzent drunk,”
   persisted the culprit. “Then you are a dead man, so what are you
   doing here,” declared the judge; and the man, taking the hint,
   walked out somewhat amazed.

    (677)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A marvelous thing for these times is reported from
   Weathersfield, Conn. A convict who has served a sentence of
   fifty years in the State prison receives his liberty at this
   Christmas season (1909). In 1859, when he was twenty-one, he
   murdered his wife, who was only a young girl of eighteen. He is
   seventy-one now. Every one of the great occurrences in American
   life which make our modern civilization what it is belongs to
   that half-century for which this man has been behind prison
   bars. Into what a changed world he will come. What can he do?
   His friends are dead. His generation has passed. His own State
   does not know him. One would suppose he would almost want to
   commit some crime that would take him back to his home of fifty
   years. What can he do? Society punished him, now what will
   society do for him? There is no asylum for him. He knows nothing
   of the business methods of the day. He is a living dead man.
   Would it not have been more merciful for society by capital
   punishment to have made him a dead man fifty years ago?

    (678)

       *       *       *       *       *

There is a very real “death” other than the merely natural, as the
following paragraph from the _Scrap Book_ will show:

   Emperor Francis Joseph’s only surviving brother, Archduke Louis
   Victor, was confined a lunatic, in a mountain castle hidden
   away in one of the remotest corners of the Austrian Tyrol. He
   himself, to all intents, is dead as far as the imperial family
   and the great world at Vienna are concerned. (Text.)

    (679)


   =Dead Valued More than Living=--See ANCESTOR WORSHIP.


   =Deafness=--See ARTICULATION.


                                 DEATH

    We are too stupid about death. We will not learn
    How it is wages paid to those who earn,
    How it is the gift for which on earth we yearn,
      To be set free from the bondage to the flesh;
    How it is turning seed-corn into grain,
    How it is winning heaven’s eternal gain,
    How it means freedom evermore from pain,
      How it untangles every mortal mesh.

    We are so selfish about death. We count our grief
    Far more than we consider their relief
    Whom the great Reaper gathers in the sheaf,
      No more to know the seasons’ constant change;
    And we forget that it means only life,
    Life with all joy, peace, rest, and glory rife,
    The victory won, and ended all the strife,
      And heaven no longer far away or strange.

    Their Lent is over, and their Easter won,
    Waiting till over paradise the sun
    Shall rise in majesty, and life begun
    Shall grow in glory, as the perfect day
    Moves on, to hold its endless, deathless sway.

    --WILLIAM CROSWELL DOANE, _The Outlook_.

    (680)


                           DEATH AS A SHADOW

Did not Jesus show us glimpses of what is behind the shadow into which
our friends have gone?

    My neighbor’s lamp, across the way,
      Throws dancing lights upon my wall;
    They come and go in passing play,
      And then the sudden shadows fall.

    My friend’s white soul through eyes and lips
      Shone out on me but yesterday
    In radiant warmth; now swift eclipse
      Has left those windows cold and gray.

    Ah, if I could but look behind
      The still, dark barrier of that night,
    And there-undimmed, unwavering-find
      That life and love were all alight! (Text.)

    --CHARLES BUXTON GOING, _Munsey’s Magazine_.

    (681)


                            DEATH-BED FAITH

John G. Paton tells in his autobiography of the death-bed of Nerwa, the
converted chief of Aniwa.

   On my last visit to Nerwa his strength had gone very low, but
   he drew me near his face and whispered, “Missi, my Missi, I am
   glad to see you. You see that group of young men? They came to
   sympathize with me, but they never once have spoken the name of
   Jesus, tho they have spoken about everything else. They could
   not have weakened me so if they had spoken about Jesus! Read me
   the story of Jesus. Pray for me to Jesus. No, stop, let us call
   them and let me speak with them before I go!” I called them all
   around him and he said, “After I am gone let there be no bad
   talk, no heathen ways. Sing Jehovah’s songs and pray to Jesus,
   and bury me as a Christian. Take good care of my Missi, and help
   him all you can. I am dying happy and going to be with Jesus,
   and it was Missi that showed me this way. And who among you will
   take my place in the village school and in the church? Who among
   you will stand up for Jesus?” Many were shedding tears, but
   there was no reply, after which the dying chief proceeded, “Now
   let my last work on earth be this: We will read a chapter of the
   Book, verse about, and then I will pray for you all, and the
   Missi will pray for me, and God will let me go while the song is
   still sounding in my heart.”

    (682)


                      DEATH, CHEERFULNESS BEFORE

The following is a glimpse of Maximilian on the day of his execution:

   Miramon slept three hours; he then arose, drank a cup of
   chocolate, and drest himself with care; at six o’clock he was
   ready to start, accompanied by a priest, M. Ladron de Guevara.
   In the corridor he found Maximilian bidding his lawyer, Eulalio
   Ortega, farewell. The sun was already high in the heavens, and
   his warm beams shot down brilliantly on the Quaretaro Valley;
   flashes of sunlight penetrated into the narrow courtyard of the
   convent. “What a splendid day, Don Eulalio!” said Maximilian;
   “it is on such a day as this I should have chosen to die.” A
   few bugle-notes were heard, and Maximilian, not knowing how to
   interpret them, questioned Miramon: “Miguel, will that be for
   the execution?” “I have not the slightest idea, sire; it will be
   the first time I shall ever have been shot.” This reply brought
   a smile to the Emperor’s lips.--Paris _Figaro_.

    (683)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The officer in command of the file of execution approached
   Maximilian and asked his pardon for having to fulfil his duty.
   The Emperor distributed several pieces of gold bearing his
   effigy to the soldiers, recommending them not to aim at his
   face. He then embraced the Generals Mejia and Miramon, and,
   as the latter had placed himself on his right, he said to him
   aloud: “Brave men should be respected by their sovereigns to
   the brink of the grave. General, pass to the place of honor.”
   Miramon stept to the center. Then, with a firm voice, the
   Emperor addrest the crowd: “Mexicans! Men of my race and origin
   are born either to make a people’s happiness or to be martyrs.
   God grant that my blood may be the last shed for the redemption
   of this unhappy country. Long live Mexico!” Immediately General
   Miramon, at the top of his voice, as when he commanded his
   troops on the battle-field, cried: “Mexicans! Before the
   court-martial my defenders only sought to save my life. At the
   moment I am about to appear before my God I protest against the
   name of traitor, which they have thrown in my face to justify
   my condemnation. Let this spot of infamy be removed from my
   children’s name, and God grant that my country may be happy.
   Long live Mexico!” General Mejia raised his eyes toward the
   heavens: “Very Holy Mother, I beseech thy Son to pardon me, as I
   pardon those who are about to sacrifice me.” A volley rung out
   from the file of soldiers, and amidst the cloud of smoke, which
   slowly drifted away, Maximilian appeared writhing convulsively
   in a pool of blood, and groaning, “Hay Hombre!”--Paris
   _Figaro_.

    (684)


                   DEATH, CHRISTIAN ATTITUDE TOWARD

Prof. G. Currie Martin points out the difference between the Christian
and the unchristian views of death.

   In the old days, when the plague swept over Italy, the ladies
   and gentlemen of fashion used sometimes to withdraw into some
   beautiful country residence, with its surrounding park, and
   behind its high walls shut themselves off from all thought
   of the misery and sorrow that surrounded them. Death, they
   imagined, could no longer reach them, until suddenly the
   spectral figure stalked into their midst, no one knew whence,
   and the false safety was shattered at a blow. The power of
   Christianity is found in the fact that it can say such brave and
   hopeful words about life, while all the time it is perfectly
   conscious of death. (Text.)

    (685)


                       DEATH, CHRISTIAN VIEW OF

   Death, ever present all the world over--how softened his grim
   visage is when associated with the name of Jesus, how awful when
   he appears alone. The writer still recalls one summer long ago,
   May, 1889, when funeral preparations were being made before a
   neighboring house. He made inquiry of An, his host: “I didn’t
   know that there was a death.” “Yes, the master of the house is
   dead; they will bury him.” “But when did he die? To-day when
   we were out?” “No, no, not to-day. He died before you came.”
   I had been there two months. They had a bier ornamented with
   dragons’ heads, painted in wild colors, that suggested skull and
   cross-bones. The funeral service was a fearful row; everybody
   was noisy, many were weeping, many were drunk. A more gruesome
   performance than that which I saw, over that horrible, unburied
   body, no one could imagine. To-day that same village sits as it
   did then, with background of mountain and foreground of sea,
   but how changed! All is Christian; Sunday is a day of rest,
   and every house is represented at the service in the chapel.
   They have lived down old-fashioned death in that village and
   exchanged it for quiet sleep.--JAMES S. GALE, “Korea in
   Transition.”

    (686)


                      DEATH COMPELLING SINCERITY

   When the great man comes to the hour of his death, we expect
   him to be natural, avoiding all sentiments that are forced or
   incongruous. That is the striking thing about the last words
   of Sir Walter Raleigh; they were the inevitable and necessary
   words. Looking down upon his enemies and his friends, Raleigh
   exclaimed about the executioner’s axe, “It is a sharp medicine,
   but it is a sure cure of all diseases.” When the sheriff asked
   if the niche in the block would fit his neck, Raleigh answered,
   “It matters not how the head lies, if only the heart be
   right.”--N. D. HILLIS.

    (687)


                    DEATH DOES NOT CHANGE CHARACTER

   When corn is cut down and is lying on the ground, and is
   afterward put into the granary, it is the very same corn as had
   grown up to full maturity in the earth. So also the souls in
   the granary above are the very same souls as had grown up to
   maturity in heaven on earth. When they are transferred to heaven
   above, they are not tares which had been cut down on earth, and
   which somehow in the process of cutting had been transformed
   into corn or wheat. Unless wheat will grow up as wheat in the
   earth, and be harvested as wheat, it will not turn into wheat
   in the act of cutting, or while it is being removed to the
   granary.--ALEXANDER MILLER, “Heaven and Hell Here.”

    (688)


                           DEATH MADE PLAIN

To Paul Laurence Dunbar the secret of death has already been made
plain, of which before he died he wrote as follows:

    The smell of the sea in my nostrils,
      The sound of the sea in mine ears;
    The touch of the spray on my burning face,
      Like the mist of reluctant tears;

    The blue of the sky above me,
      The green of the waves beneath;
    The sun flashing down on a gray-white sail
      Like a simitar from its sheath.

    So I said to my heart, “Be silent;
      The mystery of time is here;
    Death’s way will be plain when we fathom the main,
      And the secret of life be clear.”

    (689)


                        DEATH MASKED IN BEAUTY

A news item from Chicago says:

   Robert Wahl, one of the foremost chemists in the United States,
   with a knowledge of drugs and subtle poisons far beyond the ken
   of the average alchemist, is charged with threatening to kill
   his wife by giving her a flower to smell.

   It would have been a murder that no latter-day coroner or
   detective could have proved--something unheard of since the days
   of the Borgias.

The deadliest influence may be conveyed to the mind and soul as well as
to the senses by the most delicate and apparently beautiful means.

    (690)


                        DEATH NOT TO BE FEARED

The following lines by Maltbie D. Babcock were read by him just before
sailing abroad on the voyage from which he never returned:

    Why be afraid of death as tho your life were breath?
    Death but anoints your eyes with clay. O, glad surprize!

    Why should you be forlorn? Death only husks the corn.
    Why should you fear to meet the Thresher of the wheat?

    Is sleep a thing to dread? Yet sleeping you are dead
    Till you awake and rise, here, or beyond the skies.

    Why should it be a wrench to leave your wooden bench?
    Why not with happy shout run home when school is out?

    The dear ones left behind--O foolish one and blind.
    A day, and you will meet--a night, and you will greet.

    This is the death of death, to breathe away a breath
    And know the end of strife, and taste the deathless life,

    And joy without a fear, and smile without a tear,
    And work, nor care to rest, and find the last the best.

    (691)


   =Death-rate Reduced=--See IMPROVED CONDITIONS.


   =Death, Religion in=--See RELIGION TO DIE BY.


                           DEATH, SPIRITUAL

Says a writer in the _North China Herald_:

   One of the facts that ineffaceably cut into my memory during my
   first winter in New-chwang was the finding on one morning about
   New Year’s time thirty-five masses of ice, each mass having been
   a living man at 10 o’clock the preceding night. The thermometer
   was a good bit below zero. The men had just left the opium dens,
   where they had been enjoying themselves. The keen air sent them
   to sleep, and they never wakened.

The freezing was only the external manifestation of a spiritual
benumbing that long before existed within. (Text.)

    (692)


   =Death Swifter than Justice=--See JUSTICE DELAYED.


                        DEATH, THE CHRISTIAN’S

For centuries the world has admired the calmness and fortitude of
Socrates in the presence of death, but if Socrates died like a
philosopher, Patrick Henry died like a Christian. In his last illness,
all other remedies having failed, his physician, Doctor Cobell,
proceeded to administer to him a dose of liquid mercury. Taking the
vial in his hand, and looking at it for a moment, the dying man said:

   “I suppose, doctor, this is your last resort?”

   “I am sorry to say, governor, that it is.”

   “What will be the effect of this medicine?”

   “It will give you immediate relief, or--” The doctor could not
   finish the sentence.

   His patient took up the word: “You mean, doctor, that it will
   give relief or will prove fatal immediately?”

   “You can live only a very short time without it,” the doctor
   answered, “and it may possibly relieve you.”

   Then the old statesman said:

   “Excuse me, doctor, for a few minutes,” and drawing over his
   eyes a silken cap which he usually wore, and still holding the
   vial in his hand, he prayed in clear words a simple, childlike
   prayer for his family, for his country, and for his own soul,
   then in the presence of death. Afterward, in perfect calmness,
   he swallowed the medicine.

   Meanwhile Doctor Cobell, who greatly loved him, went out upon
   the lawn, and in his grief threw himself down upon the earth
   under one of the trees, and wept bitterly. Soon, when he had
   sufficiently mastered himself, the doctor returned to his
   patient, whom he found calmly watching the congealing of the
   blood under his finger-nails, and speaking words of love and
   peace to his family, who were weeping round his chair.

   Among other things, he told them that he was thankful for that
   goodness of God which, having blest him through all his life,
   was then permitting him to die without any pain. Finally fixing
   his eyes with much tenderness upon his dear friend, Doctor
   Cobell, with whom he had formerly held many arguments respecting
   the Christian religion, he asked the doctor to observe how great
   a reality and benefit that religion was to a man about to die.

   And after Patrick Henry had spoken these few words in praise of
   something which, having never failed him in his life before, did
   not then fail him in his very last need of it, he continued to
   breathe very softly for some moments, after which they who were
   looking upon him saw that his life had departed.--_The Youth’s
   Companion._

    (693)


                          DEATH, THE RING OF

   The whole world hates death. In Madrid, the Spanish capital,
   in one of its beautiful parks, stands a statue of its patron
   saint, about whose neck hangs a rare and valuable ring set with
   pearls and diamonds. It is never stolen, for nobody wants it.
   The reason is that a tragic story hangs about it. Every one
   who ever wore it died--Mercedes, Queen Christina, Infanta del
   Pillar, and others. It is known as “The Ring of Death.” (Text.)

    (694)


                            DEATH, UNTIMELY

Louis Albert Banks tells this story of a young girl cut off just after
her graduation from school:

   And there is her diploma, lying just as she threw it there, when
   she came home from college, but a few days before she was taken
   ill. I came up with her to the room, and she flung the diploma
   in there with a sort of girlish glee, and it stuck at an angle
   across the compartment of the bookcase. She closed the door on
   it and said, “Well, I’m glad I’ve got you anyhow!” and it has
   never been touched since. Two weeks later, we went with her over
   to the cemetery and laid her beside her father; and there lies
   her unused diploma that cost her so much hard work and that she
   was so proud to obtain. (Text.)

    (695)


                        DEATH USUALLY PAINLESS

   Sudden and violent death, shocking to the senses, may not be,
   probably is not, painful to the victim. Drowning, hanging,
   freezing, shooting, falling from a height, poisoning of
   many kinds, beget stupor or numbness of the nerves which is
   incompatible with sensation. Persons who have met with such
   accidents, and survived them, testify to this. Records to this
   effect are numberless. Death from fire dismays us; we can
   scarcely conceive aught more distressing. In all likelihood,
   however, it appears far worse than it is. Fire probably causes
   suffocation from smoke, or insensibility from inhaling flame, so
   that the agony we imagine is not felt. They who have been near
   their end have experienced more pain on returning, so to speak,
   from their grave, than if they had gone to it. They have endured
   all the pangs, corporeal and mental, of death, without actually
   dying. It is an error, therefore, to suppose that men may not
   have tasted the bitterness of death, and yet be alive and in
   good health.--JUNIUS HENRY BROWNE, _The Forum_.

    (696)


   =Death Valley Conquered=--See CONQUEST, SEVERE.


                          DEATH WITH SAVAGES

   H. M. Stanley relates that an African king, as a delicate
   compliment, presented him with the heads of a dozen of his
   own subjects whom he had just killed in his guest’s honor;
   and these twelve unfortunates accepted death as stolidly
   as a matter of course, and the incident made no sensation
   whatever.--HJALMAR HJORTH BOYESEN, _Chautauquan_.

    (697)


                            DEBAUCH, FATAL

    A twisted auto on a dead man’s chest--
      Ye ho, and a bottle of rum!
    Drink and the devil had done their best--
      Ye ho! and a bottle of rum!
    The roadhouse bar and the “lady friend”--
      Ye ho! and a bottle of rum!
    And at eighty miles they took the bend--
      Ye ho! and a bottle of rum!
    A swerve that mocked their drunken wills,
    A crash and a shriek through the darkness thrills;
    “Joy riding” is the pace that kills--
      Ye ho! and a bottle of rum!

    --New York _World_.

    (698)


   =Debt Paid=--See KINDNESS.


   =Debt-paying Converts=--See TESTIMONY, INDISPUTABLE.


   =Debts, Payment of=--See PAYMENT OF DEBTS.


   =Debtors to All=--See MUTUALISM.


   =Decadence, National=--See RETRIBUTION INEVITABLE.


                                 DECAY

   Old ships lying at anchor may have the appearance of soundness
   and the outward evidence of strength, usefulness, and sea-going
   qualities, but, when carefully examined for a sea voyage, are
   often found to be covered with barnacles and to be affected with
   dry rot. When such a vessel, no matter what good it has done
   or what use it has been in the traffic and carrying trade, is
   condemned, it is at once replaced by a new or more modern one
   that is in perfect order and fully seaworthy. What is true of
   vessels is often true of men also.--_American Artisan._

    (699)

   See JUDGMENT, GRADUAL.


   =Deceit=--See ENTICEMENT; UNTRUTHFULNESS.


   =Deceit Discovered=--See FALSEHOOD.


                            DECEIT WITH GOD

Rev. F. W. Hinton, of Allahabad, relates this story in the C. M. S.
_Gazette_:

   A young Bengali student came to me to ask for an explanation of
   difficult passages in a book he was reading. He said his name
   was “Sat Kori,” which means “seven cowry-shells,” and explained
   the reason for his curious name. His mother had borne several
   children before him, but all had died; so, like many other Hindu
   mothers, she thought God or the Evil One had a grudge against
   her, and if he could, he would take this last little one also.
   So she called the nurse who attended her in her illness, and
   made pretense to sell the baby to her for seven cowry-shells,
   and gave the boy the name of Seven Cowries to deceive the God
   into thinking he was of little worth. I asked the student if
   he thought the ruse had made any difference, and he replied,
   “Perhaps--at any rate, I did not die as the others had done.”
   So, a university student more than half believes that one can
   cheat God by a trick like that!

    (700)


                               DECEPTION

John Mitchell, president of the United Mine Workers, talking about
unfair methods in use at the mines for weighing coal, said:

   This method is most unfair. The fist-and-pound method, in fact,
   was scarcely worse. The fist-and-pound method originated, they
   say, in Scranton. A simple-minded old lady ran a grocery store
   there. A man came in one day and asked for a pound of bacon.
   The old lady cut off a generous chunk of bacon, and then, going
   to weigh it, found that she had mislaid her pound weight. “Dear
   me,” she said, “I can’t find my pound-weight anywhere.” The man,
   seeing that there was about two pounds in the chunk cut off,
   said hastily: “Never mind. My fist weighs a pound.” And he put
   the bacon on one side of the scales and his fist on the other.
   The two, of course, just balanced. “It looks kind o’ large for
   a pound, don’t it?” asked the old lady as she wrapt the bacon
   up. “It does look large,” said the man, as he tucked the meat
   under his arm. “Still--” But just then the old lady found her
   pound-weight. “Ah,” she said in a relieved voice, “now we can
   prove this business. Put it on here again.” But the man wisely
   refrained from putting the bacon on the scales to be tested. He
   put on his fist again instead. And his fist, you may be sure,
   just balanced the pound-weight. The old lady was much pleased.
   “Well done,” she said, “and here’s a couple o’ red herrin’ for
   yer skill and honesty.” (Text.)--New York _Sun_.

    (701)

       *       *       *       *       *

   One evening, as Vincent de Paul, the distinguished French
   priest, was returning from a mission, he found a beggar lying
   against the wall. The wretch was engaged in maiming an infant,
   in order to excite more compassion from the public when he went
   to beg. Vincent, horror-struck at the sight, cried, “Ah, you
   savage! you have deceived me. At a distance I mistook you for
   a man.” Then he took the little victim in his arms and carried
   him to the crèche, where foundlings were kept.--EDWARD
   GILLIAT, “Heroes of Modern Crusades.”

    (702)

   See SAMPLING.


                           DECEPTION EXPOSED

   “Don’t try to make musicians out of all children
   indiscriminately and thus you will avoid such household
   conversations as one I overheard the other day,” said Baron
   Kaneko of Japan, who has been spending the summer in the Maine
   woods.

   “I was on a train and a father and his young son sat near me.
   The father said: ‘John, do you practise regularly on the piano
   while I am away at business?’--‘Yes, father,’ replied the boy.
   ‘Every day?’ ‘Yes, sir.’ ‘How long did you practise to-day?’
   ‘Three hours.’ ‘And how long yesterday?’ ‘Two hours and a half.’
   ‘Well, I’m glad to hear that you are so regular.’ ‘Yes, father.’
   And the next time you practise be sure to unlock the piano. Here
   is the key. I locked the instrument last week and I have been
   carrying the key in my pocket ever since.’” (Text.)--Buffalo
   _Enquirer_.

    (703)


                          DECEPTION JUSTIFIED

   Truth in the abstract is perhaps made too much of as compared
   to certain other laws established by as high authority. If the
   Creator made the tree-toad so like the moss-covered bark to
   which it clings, and the larva of a sphinx so like the elm-leaf
   on which it lives, and that other larva so exquisitely like
   a broken twig, not only in color, but in the angle at which
   it stands from the branch to which it holds, with the obvious
   end of deceiving their natural enemies, are not these examples
   which man may follow? The Tibbu, when he sees his enemy in the
   distance, shrinks into a motionless heap, trusting that he may
   be taken for a lump of black basalt, such as is frequently met
   with in his native desert. The Australian, following the same
   instinct, crouches in such forms that he may be taken for one
   of the burnt stumps common in his forest region. Are they not
   right in deceiving, or lying, to save their lives? or would a
   Christian missionary forbid their saving them by such a trick?
   If an English lady were chased by a gang of murdering and worse
   than murdering Sepoys, would she not have a right to cheat their
   pursuit by covering herself with leaves, so as to be taken for
   a heap of them? If you were starving on a wreck, would you
   die of hunger rather than cheat a fish out of the water by an
   artificial bait? If a schoolhouse were on fire, would you get
   the children down-stairs under any convenient pretense, or tell
   them the precise truth, and so have a rush and a score or two
   of them crusht to death in five minutes?--OLIVER WENDELL
   HOLMES.

    (704)


   =Decision Dependent Upon Call=--See TESTIMONY, A SHEEP’S.


   =Decisive Deeds=--See OPPORTUNITY.


                      DECORATING SOLDIERS’ GRAVES

    Strew flowers, sweet flowers, on the soldiers’ graves,
    For the death they died the nation saves,
    ’Tis sweet and glorious thus to die--
    Hallowed the spot where their ashes lie.

    On Fame’s eternal camping-ground
      Their martial tents are spread,
    While glory guards with solemn round
      The bivouac of the dead.

    --_Evangelical Messenger._

    (705)


   =Decoration Day=--See HONOR’S ROLL-CALL.


                                DECREES

   A minister esteemed it his religious duty to visit an extreme
   frontier settlement to preach. To reach that settlement he had
   to pass through a wilderness infested with hostile Indians. When
   about to start on one of these journeys, he took his rifle from
   its rack and was about to depart with it on his shoulder when
   his good wife said to him: “My dear husband, why do you carry
   that great, heavy rifle on these long journeys? Don’t you know
   that the time and manner of your taking off has been decreed
   from the beginning of time, and that rifle can not vary the
   decree one hair’s breadth?” “That is true, my dear wife, and I
   don’t take my rifle to vary, but to execute the decree. What if
   I should meet an Indian whose time had come according to the
   decree and I didn’t have my rifle?”--HENRY C. CALDWELL.

    (706)


                            DEED, THE GOOD

   A man walked south on Main Street one afternoon recently. He had
   no overcoat and he shivered as the north wind struck him. Near
   the junction he stopped and picked something up. It was a bright
   silver dime.

   “Wasn’t I lucky,” he said to a man who had seen the episode, who
   related the story to a reporter on the Kansas City _Times_.
   “I haven’t a cent and have had nothing to eat since yesterday
   noon. Now for the nearest lunch-wagon.”

   A little girl came along at that moment. She, too, was poorly
   drest.

   “I’ve lost a dime,” she half sobbed, as she inspected the
   pavement.

   “I guess I’ve got what you were looking for,” said the man, as
   he handed the dime to the child, who danced away with only a
   “Thank you, mister.”

   “Just my luck,” said the man with the stomach.

    (707)


                             DEEDS, BRAVE

This prayer in verse is by Harry P. Ford:

    Our Father, God, while life is sweet
      With earthly joys that round it cling,
    Grant us brave deeds, for heaven meet,
      To shape the dreams that death may bring.

    (708)


                            DEEDS, HEAVENLY

   A cripple girl on a train was presented with a bunch of
   roses by another girl on board. She held them to her
   lips, and prest them to her bosom, and fell asleep.
   Later her father came in from the smoker, and took his
   little daughter in his arms. Waking up, she said: “Oh,
   father--I’ve--been--in--heaven--and--I’ve--got--some--roses.”

Deeds of love make a heaven.

    (709)


                        DEEDS, NOT APPEARANCES

   The Orientals have a proverb which says: “Provided that
   beneficence have long fingers and rapid steps, what does it
   matter if its wry faces displease thee? Don’t look at its face.”
   (Text.)--_Revue des Deux Mondes._

    (710)


                            DEEDS THAT TALK

   At a laymen’s meeting of Southern Baptists held in Richmond,
   Mr. R. E. Breit, president of a Texas oil company, was called
   upon for an address. He said, “Brethren, I never made a speech
   in my life and I can’t make one now; but if Brother Willingham
   (secretary of the missionary society) will send ten men to
   China, he can send the bill to me.” (Text.)

    (711)


                          DEEDS VERSUS WORDS

   A boy was pushing a heavily loaded barrow up a steep hill,
   using every ounce of energy. “Hi, boy,” called out a
   benevolent-looking old gentleman, “if you push that zigzag,
   you’ll find it go up more easily.” “That’s all right, sir,”
   responded the boy, rather crisply, “but if you’d give me less
   advice and more shoving, I’d like it better.”

    (712)


                           DEEP-DOWN THINGS

Sam Walter Foss, in “Songs of the Average Man,” is the author of this
assuring verse:

    The deep-down things are strong and great,
    Firm-fixt, unchangeable as fate,
    Inevitable, inviolate,
            The deep-down things.

    The deep-down things! All winds that blow,
    All seething tides that foam and flow
    May smite but can not overflow
            The deep-down things.

    The surge of years engulfs the land
    And crumbles mountains into sand,
    But yet the deep-down things withstand
            The surge of years.

    Behind the years that waste and smite,
    And topple empires into night,
    God dwells unchanged in changeless light
            Behind the years. (Text.)

    (713)


                              DEEP THINGS

   It is folly to think that only those things are of value to us
   which we can intellectually understand. Is the vast deep of
   the ocean nothing to me, since I can not move about freely and
   closely examine its depths? And if I must confess that ’way
   down are untold mysteries which human eye has never seen, what
   matters it? Can not I rejoice in the roar of the waves, in the
   ebb and flow of the tides, and in the flight of the clouds?
   Why will men insist, with their poor, finite reasoning, on
   fathoming the deep things of God, instead of drinking to the
   full from the inexhaustible source of assurance and consolation?
   (Text.)--E. F. STROTER, “The Glory of the Body of
   Christ.”

    (714)


                          DEFACEMENT OF SOUL

   If a drunkard knew that a certain number of drinks would make
   his face permanently black, how many men would drink? And shall
   we be less careful about the face of our soul?

    (715)


                                DEFEAT

This incident corroborates the truth of the poet’s thought, “We rise on
stepping-stones of our dead selves to higher things.”

   A young Englishman once failed to pass the medical examination
   on which he thought his future depended.

   “Never mind,” he said to himself. “What is the next thing to
   be done?” and he found that policy of “never minding,” and
   going on to the next thing, the most important of all policies
   for practical life. When he had become one of the greatest
   scientists of the age, Huxley looked back upon his early defeat
   and wrote:

   “It does not matter how many tumbles you have in life, so long
   as you do not get dirty when you tumble. It is only the people
   who have to stop and be washed who must lose the race.”

    (716)

   See SUCCESS IN FAILURE.


   =Defective Memory=--See MEMORY AND DISEASE.


                         DEFECTS OF THE GREAT

   Handel, whose seraphic music lifts us to the gate of heaven, and
   whose faith was so clear that when he was dying, on Good Friday,
   said that his wish was fulfilled, and that he looked forward to
   meeting his good God, his sweet Lord and Savior, on Easter day,
   was yet a man with a very earthly, irritable temper--so much so
   that he had a quarrel with a brother composer which ended in a
   duel.

    (717)


   =Defense=--See RESISTANCE.


                               DEFORMITY

   There died recently in Stockerau, Bavaria, at the age of
   twenty-eight years, a dwarf, Maria Schuman, who was at one time
   a celebrity, says _La Nature_. She passed her whole life
   in the cradle where she slept her first sleep, twenty-eight
   years ago. Up to the day of her death, this strange creature
   preserved the height and general appearance of an infant of a
   few months; but, wonderful to say, her intellect was normally
   developed and nothing could have been odder than to hear this
   tiny baby in the cradle talk like an adult, with much vivacity
   and intelligence! Maria was born in 1875, at Brigittenan, near
   Vienna. Her parents were of normal development, and so were her
   brothers and sisters. (Text.)

    (718)


                              DEGENERACY

Before Lord Shaftesbury began his work among the poor of England, he
tells us that he witnessed this occurrence:

   I must have been fourteen years old, or a little more, and I
   was walking down from the churchyard, just as we are to-day,
   when I was startled by hearing a sudden yell, a drunken voice
   singing, and a noisy sound of laughter coming up from the main
   road below; then they turned the corner, and I saw four men
   staggering along under a coffin, and jesting with song and
   horrible laughter as they drew near me. I looked at the coffin.
   I could see the rough boards were hastily nailed together; great
   cracks half revealed what was inside. Just as they passed me
   one of the men slipt, and the coffin fell from their shoulders
   and rolled over into the road. It was horrifying to me; and
   then they began to swear at one another, using foul language.
   I thought they would have fought over the poor dead creature’s
   corpse. I came away feeling that if God preserved my life I
   would do something to help the poor and him that had no friend.

    (719)

       *       *       *       *       *

Perhaps too much attention is being paid to various theories concerning
evolution and development. It might be well sometimes to devote at
least a little consideration to the serious possibilities of devolution
and degeneracy.

   Dr. Carpenter, a London zoologist, speaks thus of certain
   organisms brought to light by the scientific Atlantic dredging
   expedition: “This little organism is clearly a dwarfed and
   deformed representative of the highly developed _Apiocrinus_ of
   the Bradford clay, which, as my friend Wyville Thomson said,
   seems to have been going to the bad for millions of years.” Thus
   we learn that a lowly creature living on the ocean floor is the
   degenerate result of that which has been going to the bad for
   millions of years.

But if such a vast course of degradation is possible in a sea-worm,
what are the possibilities of degradation in a soul?

    (720)

   See DEGRADATION; EARLY PROMISE; SELFISHNESS.


   =Degeneracy, a Figment=--See SCIENCE SHATTERING SUPERSTITIONS.


                       DEGENERACY THROUGH DISUSE

It is a recognized fact that the disuse of faculties inevitably leads
to deterioration.

   There is a curious little plant called the sundew which grows in
   marshes. A small fly alights on one of the leaves attracted by
   the crimson hairs, and by the sticky liquid called the “dew.”
   When the fly struggles to get free the hairs slowly curve round
   him and trap him, at the same time pouring out more of the
   dew. Presently the poor insect dies in that trap. Why does the
   plant do this? Simply because it wants to eat the fly. The dew
   is acid and dissolves the insect’s body, so that the plant can
   absorb the nitrogen which it contains. The sundew once lived
   in harmless plant fashion, for it belongs to the saxifrage
   family, of which the other members are quite respectable and
   hard-working plants, getting their living by honest root-work
   in extracting their nitrogen out of the ground. When we examine
   the sundew we find it has scarcely anything worthy the name
   of a root. Long ago it seemed to dislike the wear and tear of
   thrusting rootlets into the ground and seeking for food, so it
   settled into a bog, where it could get water at least without
   any trouble. There, as the roots had next to nothing to do, they
   slowly dwindled away, as all things will dwindle which are not
   used, whether they be plant-roots, or the limbs of animals, or
   the minds of men.--“A Mountain Path.”

    (721)


                              DEGRADATION

   A doctor was once riding from Yezd to Kerman, in Persia, to
   make a visit. Arriving at a post-house, and finding no horse,
   he demanded a mule. On this beast he made the next stage, to
   be told on arrival that there was only a donkey available.
   Accepting this mount from necessity, he reached in time another
   stage, where he met the announcement that nothing in the shape
   of an animal was obtainable but a cow! The story stops there,
   drawing the veil of silence over the rest of the journey.

An evil life is successively degraded, declining in guilt and misery to
depths lower than the brute. (Text.)

    (722)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The early Christians did not despise the dance; but as monkish
   asceticism drew away from the simple, natural teaching of
   Christ, the dance fell into disfavor and was frowned upon as a
   manifestation of the evil one. And just so it was with artistic
   perception and artistic appreciation. Where they were highest,
   in Hellenic antiquity, dancing had its place among the arts and
   was revered as the oldest of them all, that art upon which all
   the others were based. Dragged down to pander to luxury and
   profligacy, as were all the arts during the period of Roman
   triumph and Roman decadence, the dance fell under a cloud with
   the rest, and seemed to disappear during the dark ages, as did
   the others. (Text.)--GRACE ISABEL COLBRON, _The
   Cosmopolitan_.

    (723)


   =Degradation Inciting Philanthropy=--See DEGENERACY.


   =Degradation versus Transformation=--See MISSIONARY RESULTS.


   =Degrees, Honorary=--See LABELS, MISLEADING.


                                 DEISM

   Deism of any type is morally impotent; and deism of the
   eighteenth-century type is nothing but a little patch of
   uncertain quicksand set in a black sea of atheism. It does not
   deny God’s existence, but it cancels Him out as a force in
   human life. It breaks the golden ladder of revelation between
   heaven and earth. It leaves the Bible discredited, duty a guess,
   heaven a freak of the uncharted imagination, and God a vague
   and far-off shadow. Men were left by it to climb into a shadowy
   heaven on some frail ladder of human logic.--Rev. W. H.
   FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (724)


                                 DELAY

   The limited express that spans the distance between New York and
   Chicago in twenty-four hours accomplishes the feat not so much
   by increasing the speed as by reducing the delays. In the main
   the train does not travel much faster than the other trains that
   take a third more time do at their maximum; but it makes fewer
   stops, it attends more strictly to its through business. Chicago
   is its objective point.

It is much so on the railroad of life. How young we would all be
at sixty--ay, at eighty--if we would avoid the petty, useless, the
unnecessary delays, the unprofitable business at the side-stations
along the road. (Text.)--VYRNWY MORGAN, “The Cambro-American
Pulpit.”

    (725)

       *       *       *       *       *

A newspaper item has the following:

   At an annual dinner of the Architectural League of New York the
   venerable artist, John La Farge--who certainly belongs among
   the first half-score of painters that America has produced--was
   presented with a medal of honor.

   Then a singular thing happened.

   Mr. La Farge got upon his feet and, in a gentle tone of
   expostulation, protested that the honors now offered him were a
   little empty--and very much belated.

   He said he had “only three or four more years left to work in,”
   and that through all the years of his vigorous manhood the great
   city of New York, with all its vast enterprise of building, had
   offered little opportunity to his hand.

The kind word should be spoken to the friend and not engraved on his
tombstone. The work that is thought of should be performed in the day
of opportunity, for it may be so belated as to lose much of its meaning.

    (726)


   =Delay, Expensive=--See NATURALIZATION.


   =Delay in Religious Instruction=--See RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION.


                         DELAY, THE TRAGEDY OF

   Charles Biedinger, an inventor, was found dead in his room in
   a cheap lodging-house. He had been in extreme want, and had
   learned that the Superior Court at Cincinnati had decided
   a patent-right claim in his favor, awarding him $93,000 and
   interest upon it for several years. His invention, a machine for
   making paper wrappers, was patented while he was in a sanatorium
   by his financial backer, who refused an accounting when the
   inventor was discharged from the sanatorium. The suit followed,
   with the verdict of a fortune which came too late. Biedinger was
   so reduced in circumstances that he was recently employed as a
   dish-washer in a restaurant. (Text.)

    (727)


   =Delaying Religious Instruction=--See RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION.


   =Delaying the Gospel=--See FATHER, OUR.


   =Deliberation=--See PAINSTAKING.


   =Deliverance=--See TRANSFORMATION.


                               DEMAGOGY

   “Yes,” said the candidate, “I’m going out among the farmers
   to-day--to a pumpkin show, or jackass show, or something of that
   sort. Not that I care for pumpkins or jackasses, but I want to
   show the people that I am one of them.”

    (728)


                              DEMONOLOGY

   St. Thomas Aquinas used to hold that angels and devils made the
   atmosphere their battle-ground--the angels that live in the calm
   upper spheres, the devils that fill the immensity of space;
   and thus he accounted for the injurious changes of weather to
   be experienced in certain countries. For the mortification and
   the rout of these demons bells were consecrated and hung in
   the church-spires, usually inscribed, “_Vivos voco, mortuos
   plango, fulgura frango_” (I summon the living, I mourn
   the dead, I scatter the thunder-storm); and their ringing
   was thenceforth considered to be one of the potent means of
   dispelling evil influences and of abating tempests. These evil
   powers, according to medieval legend and belief, were able to
   produce hail, thunder, and storms at their will, and those among
   them called witches took aerial voyages exactly as the witches
   of much later days were held to do, altho more particular
   detail is given of their operations, as it is known that they
   smeared their broomsticks with witch-salve, after which mounting
   them, they could sail where they would through so much of this
   atmosphere as was within their jurisdiction. “The air,” says
   Rydberg, speaking of those days of the Dark Ages, “was saturated
   with demoniacal vapors,” and specters, ghosts, and vampires
   multitudinous added their horrors to the fertile imaginations of
   the people.--_Harper’s Bazar_.

    (729)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In the Kongo district insane people are treated by the native
   doctors in the following manner: The patient’s hands are secured
   by stout cords, and he is led to the doctor with a fowl and a
   lighted firebrand balanced on his head. The doctor takes five
   twigs from five different trees and strikes the patient with
   each in turn, bidding the evil spirit depart from him. The
   lighted stick is then plunged into some water, and as the fire
   is quenched the evil spirit is supposed to leave the man’s body.
   He may reenter it, however, so the fowl is killed and placed
   on a stick at a cross-roads for an offering to the deposited
   spirit. Then the man’s bands are loosened and he is free to go
   as he chooses; but if he shows signs of the demon appearing in
   him again, any one may kill him if his relatives do not object.

    (730)


                             DEMONSTRATION

   John W. Gates, the “Wire King,” is described as “an extreme type
   of the American ‘hustler.’” The Texas cattlemen had never seen
   barbed wire before, and they ridiculed it.

   “That stuff wouldn’t hold a Texas steer a holy minute,” said
   they.

   Gates was put on his mettle. “I’ll show you whether it will or
   not,” said he.

   This was in the picturesque town of San Antonio, which is dotted
   liberally with small open spaces, or plazas. Gates hired the
   nearest plaza, and got together a drove of twenty-five of the
   wildest Texas steers that could be found. Then he fenced his
   plaza with barbed wire, put the steers inside, and gave the
   cattlemen a free show. The steers charged the wire, and were
   pricked by the barbs. They shook their heads and charged again,
   with the same result. After two or three of these defeats they
   huddled together on the inside and tried to think it over. Gates
   sold hundreds of miles of his wire that day at eighteen cents a
   pound.--_Munsey’s_.

    (731)

       *       *       *       *       *

Men are sometimes condemned on hearsay, who would be approved if their
critics gave them an actual and fair hearing.

   When Chief Justice Holt was on the bench, a society had
   sprung up called “The Society for the Suppression of Vice or
   the Reformation of manners” (and probably it still exists),
   and they resolved to prosecute for indecency one of the famous
   singers of the day named Leveridge. This artist used to sing
   Dryden’s ode, “The Praise of Love and Wine,” so as to excite
   great enthusiasm among the depraved votaries of the theater
   by his peculiar manner of execution. The judge saw the craze
   under which the prosecutor acted, and resolved to defeat them
   by the following course: He said to the jury that he had read
   carefully the words of the song, and he could see nothing very
   culpable in the words, and therefore he could only come to the
   conclusion that it must be the manner in which the ode was
   sung that had occasioned this prosecution. The fairest manner,
   therefore, to all parties would be for the defendant to sing the
   song in presence of the court and jury, when they could readily
   determine the matter in a satisfactory way. The performer took
   this hint, and, of course, sang with his very greatest power
   and good taste, so that not only the jury, without leaving the
   box, acquitted him, but the mob insisted on carrying him home on
   their shoulders. (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of
   Law and Lawyers.”

    (732)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Tolstoy, in his “Coffee-house Parable,” tells of how some men of
   different faiths had met in a place of public resort and had,
   after a time, begun to argue about God, each claiming alone to
   possess a true knowledge of Him, to have alone received His
   revelation. One, wiser than the others, led them all forth at
   last till they stood in the sunlight. That sun is a great fact
   and manifests itself to every creature on earth. Man sees it,
   or does not see it, being blind, yet is ever cheered by it; the
   earth is kissed by its rays till it blossoms and brings forth
   its fruit; even the hard, inanimate things, like the rocks, are
   warmed by the sun’s rays. And God is the great central fact of
   life.

    (733)

   See APPEAL, A LIVING; PROOF.


                              DEPENDENCE

There are many, like John Wesley, who fear to trust their Christian
faith to guide them, but must lean on the faith and strength of others.
But faith thus treated is certain to fail the soul in any great crisis.

   Wesley’s first consideration, he declares, is “which way
   of life will conduce most to my own improvement?” He needs
   daily converse with his friends, and he knows “no other place
   under heaven, save Oxford, where I can have always at hand
   half-a-dozen persons of my own judgment and engaged in the
   same studies. To have such a number of such friends constantly
   watching over my soul” is a blessing which, in a word, Wesley
   can not bring himself to give up. “Half Christians,” he
   declares, would kill him. “They undermine insensibly all my
   resolutions and quite steal from me the little fervor I have.
   I never come from among these ‘saints of the world’ but faint,
   dissipated, and shorn of all my strength.” Except he can
   crouch beneath the shelter of a stronger faith than his own,
   John Wesley protests he must die; so he will not venture from
   Oxford.--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (734)


                           DEPENDENCE ON GOD

   The will of God is like a rope thrown to us as we struggle
   among the untamed waves. To remain “independent” is to repulse
   all succor, all salvation; it is to wander without a compass
   and without a chart through the fury of the storm. To obey
   is to seize the rope, to face the blast, to brave the storm,
   to advance against the confederate waves, to let oneself be
   irresistibly drawn toward the invisible harbor where our
   heavenly Father awaits us.--MONROE.

    (735)


   =Depopulation=--See BIRTH-RATE IN FRANCE.


                              DEPORTMENT

   One effect of the high standard of deportment enforced by the
   railroads is seen in the extent to which women and children
   travel alone, without fear. An illustration of this is the
   experience of a Western woman who was coming to New York for
   the first time. With her husband, she left Buffalo for New York
   on the Lehigh Valley Railroad. When they reached Mauch Chunk,
   Pa., the husband got out to walk up and down the platform, and
   somehow the train pulled out without him. The woman, left alone,
   never having been east of Chicago before, was on the verge of
   panic. Her husband had all the money; the train was to reach New
   York in the night; she didn’t know what hotel to go to, and,
   if she had known, couldn’t have found her way there. So the
   conductor took her in charge, had her carried to a good hotel,
   and arranged to have the bill guaranteed. The husband, when he
   arrived, was so grateful that he hunted up the conductor and
   presented to him a handsome ring.--Buffalo _Evening News_.

    (736)


                               DEPRAVITY

That sin so easily besets and so dangerously deceives its subjects is
accounted for by the declaration that “the heart is deceitful above all
things and desperately wicked.”

   The anemone, or “windflower,” as its Greek name means, is
   fascinating to botanists and to all lovers of flowers because
   of two highly contrasted characteristics. One of these is what
   gardeners call its “sporting” tendency in color. The other is
   a constant quantity, which never varies. As for the former,
   all who know the anemone are well aware that this flower is
   so variable that the cultivator never knows what will be the
   tint of the blossoms on any plant. But the constant quantity
   is the great black spot in the heart of the flower. No matter
   what may happen to be the color of the petals, the dense dark
   center is always there. So it is with this our human nature.
   Education, culture, refinement, high accomplishments, hereditary
   advantages, natural amiability, may and do contribute toward the
   charm of many a personality; but the black spot of the depravity
   which is innate is not expunged by any of these expedients.
   (Text.)

    (737)

   See BIBLE AND HUMAN NATURE.


   =Depravity a Disease=--See CHARACTER CONDITIONED BY THE PHYSICAL.


                              DEPRIVATION

We can best estimate the value of common blessings by imagining
ourselves deprived of them.

    What would it mean for you and me
      If dawn should come no more;
    Think of its gold along the sea,
      Its rose above the shore!
    That rose of awful mystery,
      Our souls bow down before.

    Think what it means to see the dawn!
      The dawn, that comes each day!
    What if the East should ne’er grow wan,
      Should never more grow gray!
    That line of rose no more be drawn
      Above the ocean’s spray! (Text.)

    --MADISON CAWEIN, _Ainslee’s Magazine_.

    (738)


                          DEPTH OF RESOURCES

   Some splendid pines were found, after a heavy gale, lying
   prostrate, tho they were strong trees in their full prime. To a
   questioner an old woodman said: “They got their water far too
   near the surface. If they had had to strike their roots deeper
   for moisture no winds could ever have uprooted them.”

Many folks are easily upset because all life has been too easy with
them. Their roots have never struck deep because there was no great
compulsion to make them go deeper for the sources of life. Our very
wants, if we do not succumb to them, but go deeper until we find the
heart’s need, may become the means of our strength. (Text.)

    (739)


                           DEPTH, THE SECOND

   As we drift along in a boat on the smooth surface of a river, we
   note many familiar appearances. Delicate winged creatures dart
   about, swallows flash to and fro, here and there fishes leap up,
   and zephyrs waft petals of flowers and seeds of plants over the
   placid mirror. In the shallow pool we note aquatic creatures and
   weeds growing among the pebbles, and thus we see the material
   depth. But suddenly there is a change. The bottom of the river
   vanishes, and there comes into view a second depth. The arched
   heavens are mirrored there, and we look down into measureless
   azure. When darkness comes the moon and stars are reflected in
   the depths.

It is so when we come under higher spiritual influences. These soon
supersede the view of the things that are merely of the earth earthy.
There is a second and heavenly depth of meaning below the whole
superficies of this mundane sphere of experience.

    (740)


   =Derelicts=--See CONSERVATION.


   =Descent to Evil=--See EVIL, BEGINNINGS OF.


   =Design=--See VOICE, THE HUMAN.


   =Design, A, Removed=--See REMINDERS, UNPLEASANT.


                       DESIGN IN MAN’S ACTIVITY

   The fin of the fish does not more evidently convey the power
   and betoken the function of moving in the sea or the wing of
   the bird that of sailing on the air, than do these quickening
   and propellent forces, inherent in man’s being, proclaim
   him ordained for wide-reaching operation.--RICHARD S.
   STORRS.

    (741)


                           DESIGN IN NATURE

A student of the phenomena of vision, Professor Pritchard, speaks thus
of the argument from the structure of the human eye:

   From what I know, through my own specialty, both geometry and
   experiment, of the structure of lenses and the human eye, I do
   not believe that any amount of evolution, extending through
   any amount of time consistent with the requirements of our
   astronomical knowledge, could have issued in the production of
   that most beautiful and complicated instrument, the human eye.
   There are too many curved surfaces, too many distances, too many
   densities of the media, each essential to the other; too great a
   facility of ruin by slight disarrangement, to admit of anything
   short of the intervention of an intelligent Will at some stage
   of the evolutionary process. (Text.)

    (742)


   =Design in the Soul=--See WORK DIVINELY INTENDED.


                             DESIGN OF GOD

   We are told that on one occasion Napoleon was shut up in an
   island of the Danube, hemmed in by the Archduke Charles.
   He was able to maintain himself there, but he sent word to
   Italy and Spain and France, and he ordered his marshal with
   such minuteness that every day’s march was perfect. All over
   the north of France, and from the extreme south of Spain and
   Portugal, the corps were, all of them, advancing, and day by
   day, coming nearer and nearer. Not one of them, on the march,
   had any idea what was the final purpose, and why they were
   being ordered to the central point. But on the day the master
   appointed the heads of the columns appeared in every direction.
   Then it was that he was able to break forth from his bondage and
   roll back the tide of war.

How like our life, as it moves on, to the command of the Master. Its
forces seem confused to us, without cohesion, ofttimes antagonistic.
Joy and sorrow, health and sickness, prosperity and adversity--all
march in their appointed paths and to their appointed ends. But at
last we shall see behind them all the one will and the one power,
and we shall be able to say on the day of final emancipation and
victory, as said Joseph of old, God meant it unto good, to bring it to
pass.--JOHN COLEMAN ADAMS.

    (743)


                          DESIRES INORDINATE

   An adventurer waits upon you one of these days and offers
   you on terms absurdly easy some diamond-field in Africa, or
   silver-mine in Nevada, or ruby-mine in Burmah--a few shares at
   a trifling cost will make you a millionaire. You are smitten;
   your brain is filled with pleasant dreams; and without the least
   investigation, you invest your good money to find ere long
   that you have been cruelly deceived. Will the public greatly
   pity you? They will not. There was a personal moral fault at
   the bottom of your misfortune. You were willingly ignorant,
   you were easily blinded, because of your inordinate desires.
   So is it in all temptations of life to which we fall a prey. A
   certain morbid disposition of soul is the secret of our loss or
   ruin.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (744)


   =Despair Relieved=--See EXTREMITY NOT FINAL.


   =Desperate Remedy=--See LAST RESORT OF A WOMAN.


                                DESTINY

    The tissue of the life to be
      We weave with colors all our own,
    And in the fields of destiny
      We reap as we have sown;
    Still shall the soul around it call
      The shadows which it gathered here,
    And painted on the eternal wall
      The past shall reappear.

    (745)

       *       *       *       *       *

Rev. Frederick Lynch tells in _Christian Work_ the following story
of Henry Ward Beecher:

   In a public assembly a minister arose and said: “Mr. Beecher,
   my congregation has delegated me to ask this question of you:
   We have in our congregation one of the purest and most lovable
   men you ever saw. He is upright, honest, generous, the heartiest
   supporter of the church we have--the friend of the poor, the
   beloved of little children, a veritable saint--but he does not
   believe the doctrine of the Trinity. Now, where do you think he
   will go after death?” Mr. Beecher was equal to the occasion.
   Hesitating a moment, he said: “I never dare say where any man
   will go after death, but wherever this man goes, he certainly
   has my best wishes.”

    (746)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A polliwig swims about in a muddy pool and appears happy and
   contented. It is in its element. After a while it develops into
   a frog and climbs up on the bank. Altho it has attained to a
   higher state of existence, it has a tendency for the old life.
   It does not go very far away from the muddy pool. It stays near
   it, that it may take an occasional dip. A boy comes along and
   stones it, and it leaps back into the muddy pool. The boy looks
   about for some other moving object. He sees a lark not far away
   and hurls a stone at it. The skylark spreads its wings for
   flight. As it soars upward, it sings clearer and sweeter until
   it is far above the reach of its tormentor.

The contrasted tendencies of men resemble those of the polliwig and the
lark. There is a world of meaning in the brief statement about Judas,
“that he might go to his own place.” (Text.)

    (747)


                          DESTINY OF NATIONS

    The destiny of nations! They arise,
      Have their heyday of triumph, and in turn
    Sink upon silence, and the lidless eyes
      Of fate salute them from their final urn.

    How splendid-sad the story! How the gust
      And pain and bliss of living transient seem!
    Cities and pomps and glories shrunk to dust,
      And all that ancient opulence a dream.

    Must a majestic rhythm of rise and fall
      Conquer the peoples once so proud on earth?
    Does man but march in circles, after all,
      Playing his curious game of death and birth?

    Or shall an ultimate nation, God’s own child,
      Arise and rule, nor ever conquered be;
    Untouched of time because, all undefiled,
      She makes His ways her ways eternally?

    --RICHARD BURTON, _The Century Magazine_.

    (748)


                         DESTRUCTION, GRADUAL

   One morning visitors staying in Venice were told that an ominous
   report was in circulation concerning the Campanile, and that so
   certainly was a disaster expected that the old architect who
   had charge of the Palace of the Doges and of the tower of St.
   Mark’s Cathedral had stolen out of the city, unable to bear the
   thought of the approaching catastrophe. A guide took visitors to
   the tower and pointed out little piles of sand that had trickled
   down from between the bricks. It was dangerous to stand there
   and the party retreated. The next night news went all over the
   world that the Campanile had fallen. But the accident had not
   happened suddenly. The Campanile had been through centuries
   preparing for its fall. Slowly the moist air of the lagoon had
   slaked the lime, and the acid of the smoke had disintegrated the
   mortar. A thousand minute injuries were slowly inflicted, and
   gradually the foundations settled and cracked.

So it is with character in individuals and communities. Falsehood,
insincerity, vanity, dishonesty, selfishness and infidelity pull down
institutions and bring even empires crashing in ruins.

    (749)


                         DESTRUCTION NECESSARY

   It has been calculated that, as fish produce so many eggs, if
   vast numbers of the latter and of the fish themselves were not
   continually destroyed and taken they would soon fill up every
   available space in the seas. For instance, from 60,000,000
   to 70,000,000 codfish are annually caught on the shores of
   Newfoundland. But even that quantity seems small when it is
   considered that each cod yields about 4,500,000 eggs every
   season, and that even 8,000,000 have been found in the roe of
   a single cod. Were the 60,000,000 cod taken on the coast of
   Newfoundland left to breed, the 30,000,000 females producing
   5,000,000 eggs every year, it would give a yearly addition of
   150,000,000,000,000 young codfish.--_Public Opinion._

    (750)


   =Destructive Criticism=--See SATIRE.


                            DESTRUCTIVENESS

   The size of a thing is not always the measure of its
   destructiveness. We look at a big battleship and exclaim what
   a huge instrument of destruction. Yet the tiny germ called the
   tubercle bacillus is so small that it is said that 900 can find
   room on the point of a small sewing-needle, and these germs
   destroy more lives each year than the mightiest warship could
   possibly do in action.

    (751)

       *       *       *       *       *

Sins and faults gradually ruin character, once they begin to ravage, as
the bee-moths ruin the hive of bees:

   Death and destruction of the community follow in the train of
   the bee-moth. From the eggs hatch little sixteen-footed grubs
   that keep well hidden in the cracks, only venturing out to feed
   on the wax of the comb nearest them. As they grow they need
   more and more wax, but they protect themselves while getting it
   by spinning a silken web which prevents the bees from getting
   at them. Wherever they go they spin silken lines and little
   webs until, if several bee-moths have managed to lay their eggs
   in the hive and several hundred of their voracious wax-eating
   grubs are spinning tough silken lines and webs through all the
   corridors and rooms of the bees’ house, the household duties
   get so difficult to carry on that the bee community begins to
   dwindle; the unfed young die in their cells, the indoor workers
   starve, and the breakdown of the whole hive occurs.--VERNON
   L. KELLOGG, “Insect Stories.”

    (752)

       *       *       *       *       *

Character, like corn, may be destroyed, not by the assault of a single
great evil, but by many minute sins and faults. Vernon L. Kellogg
writes thus of corn-root aphids:

   I forget how many millions of bushels of corn were raised in
   the State of Illinois last year, but there were very many. And
   that means thousands and thousands of acres of corn-fields. Now
   in all these corn-fields there live certain tiny soft-bodied
   insects called corn-root aphids. Their food is the sap of the
   growing corn-plants, which they suck from the roots. Altho each
   corn-root aphid is only about one-twentieth of an inch long and
   one-twenty-fifth of an inch wide, and has a sucking-beak simply
   microscopic in size, yet there are so many millions of these
   little insects, all with their microscopic little beaks stuck
   into the corn-roots, and all the time drinking, drinking the
   sap, which is the life-blood of the corn-plants, that they do a
   great deal of injury to the corn-fields of Illinois and cause a
   great loss in money to the farmers.--“Insect Stories.”

    (753)

   See VANDALISM.


   =Detachment=--See ABSENT-MINDEDNESS.


                           DETAILS, PERIL OF

   It is said of General Grant, when he was approaching Vicksburg,
   that his officers, brave enough and willing enough, had so
   little military experience that his orders to them were not
   mere directions as to what they should do, but instruction in
   detail as to the manner in which it should be done. It is said
   that a collection of those orders would form a compendium or
   handbook of the military art. The man of liberal training with
   us has always much of that experience. The sculptor in America
   can confide nothing to his workman. The editor often needs to
   know how to set type. Many a time will you have to instruct
   your bookbinder. Wo to you if you expect to hire a competent
   translator! The educated man in America is only a helpless
   Dominie Sampson if he can not harness his own horse, and on
   occasion shoe him. He must in a thousand exigencies paddle his
   own canoe. And the first danger which comes to him is that in
   all these side duties he will forget the great central object to
   which his life is consecrated.--EDWARD EVERETT HALE.

    (754)


   =Detected, Loss=--See THEFT, A CHECK ON.


                               DETECTION

One M. Le Roux demonstrated the value of the X-ray in detecting
smuggled goods recently at the New York custom-house:

   With every country using the X-ray at the custom-house and
   post-office smuggling would soon cease, for there seems to be
   no way to fool this little agent. Every means of baffling it
   were tried at M. Le Roux’s test. Articles were wrapt in many
   thicknesses of paper and woolen fabrics, and they were hidden
   in all sorts of queer places, but once the X-ray got busy they
   might just as well have shouted out their whereabouts, for not
   a single hidden article escaped detection.--_The Technical
   World Magazine._

    (755)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The high prices of meat were indirectly responsible for
   the arrest of Elmer McClain, a workman in a local factory,
   in Kokomo, Ind. At the noon-hour McClain sat down with his
   lunch-pail among his fellow employees and brought forth a piece
   of fried chicken. The presence of such a high-priced article
   of food in the lunch-pail of a man of McClain’s circumstances
   created much comment among the other workmen.

   The report spread to the street, and in a little while had been
   circulated throughout the city, finally reaching the ears of
   Schuyler Stevens, who had lost some chickens by theft the night
   before.

   Stevens informed the police, who, after an investigation,
   arrested McClain, who admitted that he had stolen four pullets
   from Stevens.

    (756)

   See EVIDENCE, PROVIDENTIAL; THEFT, A CHECK ON.


                        DETERIORATION BY DISUSE

   Among the many startling disclosures with which scientific
   investigation has made us familiar, one of the most extravagant
   is the discovery according to which the nose is said to be
   gradually losing its power to discharge its traditional function
   in the case of the civilized peoples. When the sense of smell
   vanishes altogether--as, it is affirmed, will infallibly be the
   case one day--the organ itself is bound to follow its example
   sooner or later. It is, no doubt, a fact that the olfactory
   sense is much keener in the savage than in the civilized man,
   and it is reasonable to conclude that the more we progress in
   civilization the duller the sense will grow, and as nature never
   preserves useless organs, when the nose loses its power of
   smelling the nose “must go.”--London _Iron_.

    (757)


   =Determination=--See ABILITY, GAGE OF.


   =Determining Factor Unknown=--See MYSTERY OF NATURE.


                              DEVASTATION

   What a pity it is to see a garden given over to a herd of swine
   that tear up the beds, trample on the seeds, wallow among the
   flowers, spoil the fruits! This is the spectacle that is offered
   our eyes every day by that beautiful and divine garden of
   Youth when it is occupied, devastated, pillaged, by the lower
   instincts, the coarser appetites.--CHARLES WAGNER, “The
   Gospel of Life.”

    (758)


   =Development, Arrested=--See DEFORMITY.


   =Development of the Ear=--See PRACTISE.


   =Development, Slow=--See RETARDATION.


   =Device for Safeguarding Freight=--See THEFT, A CHECK ON.


                          DEVICE THAT DECOYS

   Several years ago _The National Geographic Magazine_
   published a description of the angler fish, well known along the
   New England coast because of a device by means of which it lures
   and catches other fish. This device consists of filaments or
   tendrils resembling seaweed, which are attached to the head.

   When the angler is hungry, it hunts out a convenient place in
   shallow waters, where its color and markings make the fish
   indistinguishable from the sea-bottom. Here it lies quietly,
   often as if dead, while its floating filaments, kept in motion
   by the tide, decoy other fish, which never discover their
   mistake until too late to escape from the angler’s merciless
   jaws.

A bulletin by Theodore Gill, “Angler Fishes, Their Kinds and Ways,”
recently published by the Smithsonian Institution, and from which these
notes are obtained, says that the most extraordinary of all the anglers
are those that carry lanterns to see with.

   “Some stout-bodied anglers resorted to deep and deeper waters,
   where the light from the sun was faint or even ceased, and a
   wonderful provision was at last developed by kindly nature,
   which replaced the sun’s rays by some reflected from the fish
   itself. In fact, the illicium (a prolongation of the spine)
   has developed into a rod with a bulb having a phosphorescent
   terminal portion, and the “bait” round it has been also modified
   and variously added to; the fish has also had superadded to its
   fishing apparatus a lantern and worm-like lures galore.

   “How efficient such an apparatus must be in the dark depths
   where these angler fishes dwell may be judged from the fact
   that special laws have been enacted in some countries against
   the use of torches and other lights for night fishing because
   of their deadly attractiveness. Not only the curiosity of
   the little deep-sea fishes, but their appetite is appealed to
   by the worm-like objects close to or in relief against the
   phosphorescent bulb of the anglers.”

    (759)


                            DEVICES, FATAL

It is easy to go into evil by the trapdoor of temptation; it is not so
easy to retrace the steps.

   The bladderwort is a water-plant and catches much of its
   food. Underneath the surface of the water in which the plant
   floats are a number of lax, leafy branches spread out in all
   directions, and attached to these are large numbers of little
   flattened sacks or bladders, sometimes one-sixth of an inch
   long. The small end of each little bladder is surrounded by a
   cluster of bristles, forming a sort of hollow funnel leading
   into the mouth below, and this is covered inside by a perfect
   little trapdoor, which fits closely, but opens with the least
   pressure from without. A little worm or insect, or even a very
   small fish, can pass within, but never back again. The sack
   acts like an eel-trap or a catch-’em-alive mouse-trap. These
   little sacks actually allure very small animals by displaying
   glandular hairs about the entrance. The small animals are
   imprisoned and soon perish and decay to nourish the wicked
   plant. (Text.)--Prof. W. J. BEAL, _The Popular Science Monthly_.

    (760)


   =Devil, A Prayer to the=--See CHILDREN’S RELIGIOUS IDEAS.


   =Devil’s Slide=--See EVIL, BEGINNINGS OF.


                          DEVIL, THE, CHOSEN

The course of some men makes it seem as if they had chosen the devil
with more purpose than did this lawyer:

   St. Evona, or Ives, of Brittany, a famous lawyer in 1300, was
   lamenting that his profession had not a patron saint to look up
   to. The physicians had St. Luke; the champions had St. George;
   the artists each had one; but the lawyers had none. Thinking
   that the Pope ought to bestow a saint, he went to Rome, and
   requested his Holiness to give the lawyers of Brittany a patron.
   The Pope, rather puzzled, proposed to St. Evona that he should
   go round the church of St. John de Lateran blindfold, and
   after he had said so many _Ave Marias_, the first saint
   he laid hold of should be his patron; and this solution of the
   difficulty the good old lawyer willingly undertook. When he had
   finished his _Ave Marias_, he stopt short, and laid his
   hands on the first image he came to, and cried out with joy,
   “This is our saint--this be our patron.” But when the bandage
   was taken from his eyes, what was his astonishment to find
   that, tho he had stopt at St. Michael’s altar, he had all the
   while laid hold, not of St. Michael, but of the figure under
   St. Michael’s feet--the devil! (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES,
   “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (761)


   =Devolution=--See DOWN GRADE, THE.


   =Devotion to a Leader=--See KINDNESS STIMULATING DEVOTION.


   =Devotion to Christ=--See CHRIST’S FACE.


   =Devotion to Duty=--See FAITHFULNESS; LIFE, A DEVOTED.


   =Devotion to Science=--See SCIENCE, DEVOTION TO.


                       DEVOTION TO THE HELPLESS

In a newspaper account of a shipwreck, a touching incident is thus
described by a survivor:

   There was one incident which came particularly to my notice--the
   devotion of a woman to her blind husband. With her arm linked in
   his, she sought the rail of the _Florida_ to be transferred
   to the _Baltic_.

   An officer grabbed the man and hurled him to the rear. “Women
   and children only in these boats,” he yelled, as the man tumbled
   backward. The wife ran to her husband’s side and, again taking
   his arm, she appealed to the officer.

   “He is blind! Can’t you see he is helpless?” she said. “I have
   never left him. If he can not go in the boat with me, I will
   stay here until this ship sinks under me.”

   The unwritten law of the sea was waived before this plea,
   and that lone man, sightless and helpless, was permitted to
   accompany his wife, who would not leave the _Florida_ until
   her husband was permitted to go with her.

    (762)


   =Dew, The Existence of the=--See SEPARATION.


                         DIABOLICAL POSSESSION

   An old man, nearly octogenarian, who has been in bed for
   twenty-seven years, being a harmless monomaniac, having the
   delusion that his Satanic majesty always stood at his door
   to prevent him from going out, suddenly one morning, early in
   June, took it into his head that the devil was gone, whereupon
   he got out of bed, and, with nothing on but his shirt walked
   down to the quay (nearly a quarter of a mile) and jumped over.
   Having been a good swimmer in his early days, he struck out, and
   altho a boat put off from a vessel, he swam ashore.--_Public
   Opinion._

    (763)


   =Diet=--See MEALS, SIMPLICITY IN.


                          DIET AND ENDURANCE

   The Roman soldiers who built such wonderful roads and carried
   a weight of armor and luggage that would crush the average
   farmhand, lived on coarse brown bread and sour wine. They were
   temperate in their diet, and regular and constant in exercise.
   The Spanish peasant works every day and dances half the night,
   yet eats only his black bread, onion, and watermelon. The
   Smyrna porter eats only a little fruit and some olives, yet he
   walks off with his load of a hundred pounds. The coolie, fed on
   rice, is more active and can endure more than the negro fed on
   fat meat. The heavy work of the world is not done by men who
   eat the greatest quantity. Moderation in diet seems to be the
   prerequisite of endurance.--_Public Opinion._

    (764)


   =Differences of Opinion=--See OPINIONS.


                       DIFFICULTIES, DISPERSING

An old man once said: “I have had a long life full of troubles; most
of them never happened.” So most of the giants in the way, if we do
not fear them, turn out as in this dream related by the Rev. S. Benson
Phillips:

   When I first heard the call to the ministry I was about twelve
   years old. From that time until I was twenty-four years old,
   it was a question in my mind as to whether I was equal to the
   responsibilities and requirements of this holy calling. It was
   one night, after I had been thinking of these things, that I
   had the following dream: I thought that I was camping by the
   roadside, and had retired for the night. A great giant stood by
   my bedside. He offered to do me no harm, but simply stood by my
   bed. I begged him to go away. This he would not do until I arose
   and prepared to battle with him. Seeing my intention, he began
   to walk slowly away. I followed him. To my delight, he became
   smaller and smaller until he was nothing but a little boy, and
   unable to do me any harm.

    (765)


                       DIFFICULTIES, OVERCOMING

   The difficulties encountered by the Prussians on their march
   from Havre, by St. Lambert, to the field of Waterloo would have
   put the endurance of any troops to the test. The roads were
   ankle-deep from the heavy rains, and the defiles of St. Lambert
   turned into a regular swamp, almost impassable for men and
   horses; still worse for the guns and tumbrels of ammunition.
   These were very numerous and far from being well horsed, sinking
   at intervals up to the axle-trees. The horses’ floundering
   caused a stoppage, and the most robust soldiers in endeavoring
   to extricate the guns and ammunition wagons would drop down,
   overcome by the fatigue of their exertions, and declare “they
   could not get on.” “But we must get on,” replied their veteran
   commander, who seemed to multiply himself, and might be seen at
   different points along the line of march, exciting his men to
   exertion by words of encouragement. “I have promised Wellington
   to be up,” said Blücher, “and up we must get. Surely you will
   not make me forfeit my word. Exert yourselves a little more,
   and victory is certain.”--EDWARD COTTON, “A Voice from
   Waterloo.”

    (766)

   See ILLITERACY.


                         DIFFICULTIES, SOCIAL

   The only way to get De Quincey to a dinner-party was to send an
   able-bodied man to find him and bring him by force. Occasionally
   he revenged himself by making a stay of several weeks, so
   that the difficulty of getting him into a friend’s house was
   forgotten in the more appalling difficulty of how to get him out
   again.--W. J. DAWSON, “The Makers of English Prose.”

    (767)


   =Difficulty Aiding Achievement=--See ADVERSITY HELPING GENIUS.


   =Dilemma=--See SIMPLE-MINDEDNESS.


   =Dimensions=--See UPWARD LOOK.


   =Diminishing Numbers=--See SEASICKNESS.


                              DIMINUTIVES

   Some years ago, when the bedding was not supposed to be as
   fat as it ought to be, and the pillows were accused of being
   constructed upon the homeopathic principle, a New Englander
   got on a railroad car one night. Now, it is a remarkable fact
   that a New Englander never goes to sleep in one of these cars.
   He lies awake all night, thinking how he can improve upon every
   device and patent in sight. He poked his head out of the upper
   berth at midnight, hailed a porter and said, “Say, have you
   got such a thing as a corkscrew about you?” “We don’t ’low no
   drinkin’ sperits aboa’d these yer cars, sah,” was the reply.
   “’Tain’t that,” said the Yankee, “but I want to get hold on to
   one of your pillows that has kind of worked its way into my
   ear.”--HORACE PORTER.

    (768)


   =Diploma Valueless=--See COLLEGE OR EXPERIENCE.


                          DIPLOMACY, COWARDLY

   A distinguished divine was called upon to offer prayer in a
   mixed company, when in accordance with the custom of the times,
   he included in his petition to the Almighty a large measure of
   anathema, as “We beseech thee, O Lord! to overwhelm the tyrant!
   We beseech thee to overwhelm and to pull down the oppressor! We
   beseech thee to overwhelm and pull down the Papist!” And then
   opening his eyes, and seeing that a Roman Catholic archbishop
   and his secretary were present, he saw he must change the
   current of his petitions if he would be courteous to his
   audience, and said vehemently, “We beseech thee, O Lord! we
   beseech thee--we beseech thee--we beseech thee to pull down
   and overwhelm the Hottentot!” Said some one to him when the
   prayer was over, “My dear brother, why were you so hard upon
   the Hottentot?” “Well,” said he, “the fact is, when I opened my
   eyes and looked around, between the paragraphs in the prayer, at
   the assembled guests, I found that the Hottentots were the only
   people who had not some friends among the company.”--HENRY
   CODMAN POTTER.

    (769)


                       DIPLOMAT, A, AND MISSIONS

Sir Henry Mortimer Durand, at one time ambassador of Great Britain to
the United States, gave the following advice to missionaries before the
Fifth International Convention of the Student Volunteer Movement, held
at Nashville, in 1906:

   I beg you to consider earnestly before you go whether you are
   really fitted for the task before you. Do not be misled by love
   of excitement or adventure, or by the glamour of the East. It
   has a wonderful glamour, and any man of thought and feeling
   who has been out there will “hear the East a-calling” for many
   a year. But a great part of a missionary’s work, as indeed a
   great part of the work of every profession, is hard drudgery.
   To master an Oriental language, as you must master it if you
   are to be of any use, is itself a labor of years. Judson used
   often to sit and study his Burmese for twelve hours out of the
   twenty-four, and, as I have said, it took him twenty-seven years
   to complete his translation of the Bible. That is the kind of
   toil you must be ready to face. I once saw a missionary attempt
   to convert an Afghan. His manner of doing so was to walk up to
   the Afghan on the road and say in very bad Persian, which was
   not really the Afghan’s language, “Christ is the Son of God.” He
   repeated the remark twice, receiving each time a monosyllabic
   answer, and then he sheered off, having apparently no more
   Persian at his command. This is the sort of thing which causes
   the enemy to blaspheme. And remember Judson’s warning. Do not
   be tempted to spiritual pride. Do not stand aloof and condemn
   the diplomatist, or the administrator, or the soldier, because
   their lives and their views are not what yours are. They, too,
   know some things--some things which you can not know--and they,
   too, are trying to do their duty. Above all, never look down on
   the soldier. He may be rough and reckless at times, but he is
   always ready to lay down his life for his country, and all good
   missionaries should honor the soldier’s uniform.

    (770)


                               DIRECTION

   All life is short in itself. But we do not complain that the
   night is short if we are looking for the dawn, nor that the
   winter is short if we are eager for the spring. A short life is
   long enough to take the right direction, and direction is the
   main fact about our life. For our children we ask: How are they
   coming out?--FRANKLIN NOBLE, “Sermon in Illustration.”

    (771)

       *       *       *       *       *

   “I’d have you know, sir,” said the Congressman from one of the
   tall-grass districts, “that I am walking in the footsteps of
   George Washington.”

   “I see you are,” rejoined the wise guy, “but for some reason
   unknown to me, you are headed the wrong way.” (Text.)--Chicago
   _News_.

    (772)

       *       *       *       *       *

The following verses from an unidentified source carry their own lesson:

    One ship drives east and another drives west,
      While the selfsame breezes blow;
    It’s the set of the sails and not the gales
      That bids them where to go.

    Like the winds of the seas are the ways of the fates,
      As we voyage along through life;
    It’s the set of the soul that decides the goal,
      And not the storm or strife.

    (773)

   See DESTINY; FACING RIGHT; TENDENCY.


                          DIRECTION, SENSE OF

   No one would suppose that a calf possest any extraordinary
   amount of intelligence, but that one of these animals had a
   well-developed bump of location is proven by the facility with
   which this particular animal found its way home after it had
   been taken away. A college professor writes of this incident
   which came under his personal observation:

   “I spent my vacation the past summer at my mother’s, three miles
   from Siler City, N. C. My brother, who lived at Siler City,
   had a three-months-old calf which he wanted to pasture at my
   mother’s farm. Accordingly the calf was brought along the road
   from the town. The next day the animal got out of the open gate
   and returned home. I followed its trail; it had recently rained.
   The calf first took almost a bee-line for its home; crossed a
   small ditch, then came to a large ditch, which it wandered down
   some distance, but returned and crossed near its direct line.
   This was at a distance of a quarter of a mile from the road by
   which it had been delivered, and all the space is covered by
   thick forest.

   “When the calf struck the main road it proceeded along this to
   its home. This animal never had been out of its lot until it was
   brought to my mother’s, and yet its sense of direction was so
   accurate that it took a straight line for home until it reached
   the road by which it had been brought. Then it depended upon its
   memory of the road, altho it might have followed a path in a
   much more direct line.”--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (774)


                              DIRECTIONS

Cora S. Day, in _The Interior_, illustrates in the following
paragraphs the value of the Bible as a book of directions:

   They were looking through the medicine-chest in search of a
   needed remedy when there came to light a half-filled vial, whose
   torn label held but a part of the directions for use.

   “Might as well throw this away. I have forgotten what it is,
   what it is for and how to take it,” said the finder.

   “Yes, take it out. It is no good without the directions,” agreed
   the other. So the medicine was set aside.

   There are a good many things that are no good to us without the
   directions. Without the knowledge of how to use it, the most
   useful tool or machine is of no more value to a man than so
   much junk. With the directions, it becomes his assistant, his
   servant, and does good work for him.

   If you buy a sewing-machine, or a typewriter, for instance, you
   are given a book of instructions which tells how to use it. In
   addition, the agent usually gives you personal instructions
   in its operation, making its ordinary workings plain to you.
   But some day, when you are trying to run it alone, there comes
   a hitch perhaps--something you do not understand, some new
   development or complication. Then you are glad to turn to the
   book of directions for help.

   How about the book which gives directions for right living?
   Preachers and teachers and parents can tell you many good things
   when they are at hand; but the book can help you at all times.
   Full of directions for every difficulty and sure to point the
   way and lead you aright, it can be always near, ready to help in
   all perplexities. (Text.)

    (775)


                        DIRECTIONS, CONTRASTED

   Russell Sage, it is said, directed by his will that his body
   should be placed in a steel casket, weighing three tons, made
   burglar-proof, locked and sealed. He made this bequest to
   himself through fear that his physical remains might be stolen
   for the sake of getting a ransom. During his long life he
   accumulated a vast fortune and kept it. He probably spent no
   more, fared no better, did no more service to his fellow men
   than many a business man or employee of modest income.

   The late Governor Hogg, of Texas, left no fortune to relatives
   or to charity. He directed that a pecan-tree should be planted
   at the head of his grave and a walnut-tree at its foot. His
   purpose was to teach thrift to the people of his State. These
   fruit-bearing trees suggest comfort and prosperity. There is no
   fear that any one will steal his body, but a message of wisdom
   and affection will continue to go out from it after the remains
   have returned to dust. (Text.)

    (776)


   =Directness=--See SINGLENESS OF PURPOSE.


   =Dirtiness, Removing=--See DISCIPLINE FROM CHANGE.


                            DISAPPOINTMENT

   There are thousands upon thousands of models at the
   Patent-office of inventions that are of absolutely no use
   whatever. They represent the blasted hopes and often the
   ruined fortunes of innumerable inventors who invested their
   time and money in worthless ideas. The models forwarded by
   these inventors to the Patent-office form a sort of museum by
   themselves, and those who wish to look a bit beneath the surface
   can find a story abounding in genuine pathos lurking in pretty
   nearly every one of these foolish inventions. (Text.)--New York
   _Evening Sun_.

    (777)

   See APPOINTMENT.


   =Discernment=--See INTERPRETATION BY EXPERIENCE.


                    DISCERNMENT, LACK OF SPIRITUAL

   You might as well talk to a child of the African jungle about
   the glitter of New York’s Vanity Fair and expect him to
   understand you as to talk to an unregenerate person about the
   Kingdom of God and hope to make him comprehend the mysteries of
   which you speak. He wouldn’t say or do anything to wound your
   feelings for the world--he is too much of a gentleman for that;
   but at the same time he gives you to distinctly understand that
   the things of the Spirit of God are foolishness to him. And tho,
   after all, he may appear a much bigger fool to you than you do
   to him, you must at least admit that his attitude is thoroughly
   Scriptural.--F. F. SHANNON.

    (778)


                              DISCIPLINE

   A visitor to a pottery establishment was puzzled by an operation
   that seemed aimless. In one room there was a mass of clay beside
   a workman. Every now and then he took up a mallet and struck
   several smart blows on the surface of the lump. Curiosity led to
   the question, “Why do you do that?” “Wait a bit, sir, and watch
   it,” was the answer. The stranger obeyed, and soon the top of
   the mass began to heave and swell. Bubbles formed upon its face.
   “Now, sir, you see,” said the modeler, “I could never shape the
   clay into a vase if these air-bubbles were in it, therefore I
   gradually beat them out.”

Is not the discipline of life just a beating out of the bubbles of
pride and self-will, so that God may form a vessel of earth to hold
heavenly treasures? (Text.)

    (779)

   See SUCCESS IN FAILURE.


                       DISCIPLINE AMONG CHILDREN

   It required just one minute and fifteen seconds for three
   thousand pupils and teachers of Public School 22, at Sheriff and
   Stanton Streets (New York), to file into the streets after the
   “four taps signal,” indicating that the building must be vacated
   with haste, a few minutes after a fire had been discovered.
   One incident indicated particularly the degree of discipline
   instilled into the children.

   Harry Kagel, one of the smallest boys in the primary department,
   asked permission to go down-stairs just after the pupils had
   assembled for the afternoon session. As the boy was passing a
   room near the vestibule on the ground floor, he scented smoke.
   Opening the door, he found a fire blazing in waste paper and
   baskets. He did not cry out or run with fear from the building,
   but, remembering what his teachers had told him again and again,
   he ran quietly up-stairs to his class-room and whispered about
   the fire in the ear of the teacher, Miss Dixey.

   She called an older boy and sent him to investigate. In a minute
   he was back with a verification. Then Miss Dixey hurried to Miss
   C. Knowl, principal of the primary department, and to John P.
   Townley, principal of the school, and the signal was sounded.

   At once every child in the school went to his or her station,
   and all were in line or at the post assigned in a few seconds.
   Altho the thin smoke in the hallways, creeping into the
   sixty-six classrooms of the four-story building, indicated
   to pupils and teachers that this was not one of the regular
   drills, there was no confusion, and with the exception of the
   faces of pupils and teachers, which were a trifle more serious
   than at daily drill, the program was carried out perfectly.

   One of the teachers, assigned to the piano, began the march, and
   the pupils began to file out of the rooms after the last bell.
   Monitors took their places on the stone steps to guard against
   confusion near the exits. Every door in the building was thrown
   open by those assigned to that duty.

   As soon as they were in the streets, the classes hurried away
   from the exits, so that the march of those in the rear would not
   be hampered.

   In the meantime the janitor, Duncan Robinson, had gathered a
   number of large boys of the grammar department and formed a
   bucket brigade. They made short work of the flames. There was no
   call sent in for the fire department.

    (780)


   =Discipline, Easy=--See SLACKNESS.


                           DISCIPLINE EVADED

   Kassim Pasha, when Minister of War for Egypt, was very
   particular in regard to the personal appearance of his officers
   and issued stringent orders that they should never appear
   unshaven in public. One day he met upon the street a lieutenant
   who had bearded the pasha and disregarded his orders. “To what
   regiment do you belong?” demanded the indignant minister.
   “To the ---- regiment, at Abasseuh,” replied the frightened
   lieutenant. “Get into my carriage at once so that I can carry
   you to the encampment and have you publicly punished,” was the
   stern command which followed.

   The young man obeyed, and the twain rode along gloomily enough
   for some time, when the pasha stopt his carriage and entered an
   office where he would be detained for some time on business.
   Seizing the opportunity, the culprit sprang from the vehicle,
   darted into a neighboring barber’s stall and regained his
   post before the return of his jailer minus his beard. For the
   remainder of the route the officer buried his face in his hands
   and seemed the picture of apprehension.

   Abasseuh was reached at last, and all the officers were
   assembled to witness the degradation of their comrade, who all
   the while kept well in the rear of his chief. “Come forward, you
   son of a dog!” cried the irate pasha, when there stept before
   him an officer with a face as clean as a baby’s and a look of
   the most supreme innocence. His excellency gave one look of
   blank astonishment and then, with an appreciative smile breaking
   over his war-worn features, turned to the assembled officers and
   said, “Here, gentlemen, your old minister is a fool, and your
   young lieutenant is a captain.”--Pitston _Gazette_.

    (781)


                        DISCIPLINE FROM CHANGE

God frequently improves men by shaking them up and running them through
scouring-machines of misfortune, like the wheat mentioned in this
extract:

   The grain reaches Port Arthur in carloads, and is examined by
   a grain-inspector in the service of the Dominion Government.
   If found to be suffering from smut, it is separated into three
   grades, according to the amount of smut adhering to it. That
   which is least dirty is scoured and brushed until all vestige of
   smut is removed, while the dirtier grain is thoroughly washed
   and dried before being cleaned. The scouring-machine turns
   and tosses the wheat so vigorously that every grain becomes
   highly polished, and is said to be in a better condition for
   milling than ordinary wheat, since it has lost part of its outer
   integument, which would have to be removed. (Text.)--ARTHUR
   INKERSLEY, _The American Inventor_.

    (782)


   =Discipline, Military=--See OBEDIENCE.


   =Disclosure=--See UTTERANCE.


                          DISCONTENT, DIVINE

An unidentified author writes thus of discontent:

    When the world was formed and the morning stars
      Upon their paths were sent,
    The loftiest-browed of the angels was named
      The Angel of Discontent.

    And he dwelt with man in the caves of the hills,
      Where the crested serpent stings,
    And the tiger tears and the she-wolf howls,
      And he told of better things.

    And he led man forth to the towered town,
      And forth to the fields of corn;
    And he told of the ampler work ahead
      For which the race was born.

    And he whispers to men of those hills he sees
      In the blush of the golden west;
    And they look to the light of his lifted eye
      And they hate the name of rest.

    In the light of that eye doth the slave behold
      A hope that is high and brave,
    And the madness of war comes into his blood
      For he knows himself a slave.

    The serfs of wrong in the light of that eye
      March on with victorious songs;
    For the strength of their right comes into their hearts
      When they behold their wrongs.

    ’Tis by the light of that lifted eye
      That error’s mists are rent--
    A guide to the table-land of Truth
      Is the Angel of Discontent.

    And still he looks with his lifted eye,
      And his glance is far away
    On a light that shines on the glimmering hills
      Of a diviner day. (Text.)

    (783)


   =Discourtesy=--See BARGAIN-MAKING.


                         DISCOVERY, ACCIDENTAL

   Blotting-paper was discovered purely by accident. Some ordinary
   paper was being made one day at a mill in Berkshire when a
   careless workman forgot to put in the sizing material. It may
   be imagined what angry scenes would take place in that mill, as
   the whole of the paper made was regarded as being quite useless.
   The proprietor of the mill desired to write a note shortly
   afterward, and he took a piece of waste paper, thinking it was
   good enough for the purpose. To his intense annoyance, the ink
   spread all over the paper. All of a sudden there flashed over
   his mind the thought that this paper would do instead of sand
   for drying ink, and he at once advertised his waste paper as
   “blotting.”

   There was such a big demand that the mill ceased to make
   ordinary paper and was soon occupied making blotting only, the
   use of which spread to all countries. The result now is that the
   descendant of the discoverer owns the largest mills in the world
   for the manufacture of the special kind of paper. The reason the
   paper is of use in drying ink is that really it is a mass of
   hair-like tubes, which suck up liquid by capillary attraction.
   If a very fine glass tube is put into water the liquid will rise
   in it owing to capillary attraction. The art of manufacturing
   blotting-paper has been carried to such a degree that the
   product has wonderful absorbent qualities.--Boston _Herald_.

    (784)

       *       *       *       *       *

Whether this story be true or legendary, it is a fact that many
great discoveries have been the result of happy accident; or, as the
Christian will prefer to say, the result of Providence:

   It is said that the two Jansen boys had placed the spectacle
   lenses, with which they were playing, at the proper distances
   apart and were looking through them at the weather-cock on
   the top of a distant church steeple. They were surprized at
   discovering two things; first, that the weather-cock appeared
   upside down; and, second, it could be seen much more distinctly
   through the glasses than with the naked eye. Of course, they
   called the attention of their father to this curious discovery.
   Jansen, who was an intelligent man, and well acquainted with
   the properties of lenses as they were known at that early
   time, constructed a telescope based on the discovery of his
   sons.--EDWIN J. HOUSTON, “The Wonder-book of Light.”

    (785)


                       DISCOVERY, BENEFITS FROM

   In the development of mineral resources and in manufactures,
   higher education is paying even larger proportionate returns
   than in agriculture. Practically the entire $2,000,000,000
   yearly mineral production of the United States is directly due
   to a few chemical and electrical processes which were worked out
   by highly educated scientists. For example, the cyanide process
   of extracting gold, worked out in the laboratory in 1880 by
   McArthur and Forrest, is responsible for fully one-third of the
   world’s gold production, making possible the five million annual
   production of the Homestake mine in North Dakota and the one
   hundred and forty-five million of South Africa, and many other
   similar cases. The Elkinton electrolytic process of refining
   copper is in the same way used now in producing 700,000,000
   pounds of copper annually in the United States. The Bessemer and
   the open-hearth processes of producing steel, by which nearly
   all of our 23,000,000 tons are produced annually, are due to
   the scientific researches of Sir Henry Bessemer, of Thomas and
   Gilchrist, and of Siemens. Birmingham, Pittsburg, and a host of
   wealthy cities could never have come into being but for these
   discoveries. James Gayley’s discovery taught the practical
   steelworkers how they could save one-third of their coke and at
   the same time increase the output of their furnaces by a new
   process of extracting the moisture from the blast. This alone
   means the saving from now on of 10,000,000 tons of coal annually
   in the United States.--New York _Evening Post_.

    (786)


                         DISCOVERY, FORTUNATE

   “Here’s the last quarter I’ve got in the world. Give me some
   oysters, and go as far as you like,” was the combination of
   announcement and request with which John Olson, a sailor
   employed on the Scandinavian-American Line, greeted William Gau,
   proprietor of a market on Washington Street, Hoboken, as he
   entered that establishment.

   Mr. Gau proceeded to open oysters. The sailor looked hungry, so
   he made haste.

   As the third oyster was pried apart Mr. Gau uttered an
   exclamation. There was a big pearl. “Well, that’s the best luck
   I’ve had in a long time,” he observed. “Isn’t it a beauty?”

   “Wait a minute,” piped up Olson. “Didn’t I buy the oysters, and
   didn’t you take the money? My oyster, my pearl. Hand ’er over.”

   The oysterman protested, but the sailor argued so convincingly
   that Mr. Gau finally acquiesced. They journeyed at once to
   a jeweler, who appraised the jewel at $200, and threw in an
   exclamation of admiration upon its white color for good measure.
   It weighs about three carats.

    (787)


                              DISCRETION

   When I was a boy, a grim old doctor in a neighboring town was
   struck down and crusht by a loaded sledge. He got up, staggered
   a few paces, fell and died. He had been in attendance upon an
   ancient lady, a connection of my own, who at that moment was
   lying in a most critical condition. The news of the accident
   reached her, but not its fatal character. Presently the
   minister of the parish came in, and a brief conversation like
   this followed: “Is the doctor badly hurt?” “Yes, badly.” “Does
   he suffer much?” “He does not; he is easy.” And so the old
   gentlewoman blest God and went off to sleep, to learn the whole
   story at a fitter and safer moment. I know the minister was a
   man of truth, and I think he showed himself in this instance a
   man of wisdom.--OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.

    (788)


   =Discretion in Attack=--See ATTACK, DISCRETION IN.


                     DISCRIMINATION IN PUNISHMENT

   A farm servant named Auguste Bichet was condemned at Nancy
   to six days’ imprisonment for stealing a franc, but was
   complimented by the court for his honesty. Bichet stole a franc
   from a shop counter and confest to the theft. But about the same
   time he found a purse containing $125 and at once restored it
   to its owner, refusing to accept any reward. The court exprest
   its astonishment and admiration at the man’s honesty, but as
   he had been convicted before, the president said they were
   obliged to send him to prison. They did so with great regret and
   complimented him on his probity.--San Francisco _Bulletin_.

    (789)


                        DISCRIMINATION, UNFAIR

    Taking $1,000,000 is called genius.
      „       100,000  „   „    shortage.
      „        50,000  „   „    litigation.
      „        25,000  „   „    insolvency.
      „        10,000  „   „    irregularity.
      „         5,000  „   „    defalcation.
      „         1,000  „   „    corruption.
      „           500  „   „    embezzlement.
      „           100  „   „    dishonesty.
      „            50  „   „    stealing.
      „            25  „   „    total depravity.
      „       one ham  „   „    war on society.

    --Washington _Post_.

    (790)

   See POISON DRINK.


                          DISEASE BENEFICIAL

   People have considered every symptom of disease noxious, and
   that it ought to be stamped out with relentless determination;
   but, according to Sir Frederick Treves, the motive of disease is
   benevolent and protective. If it were not for disease, he said,
   the human race would soon be extinct.

   Sir Frederick took examples, such as a wound and the supervening
   inflammation, which is a process of cure to be imitated rather
   than hindered. Peritonitis, he said, was an operating surgeon’s
   best friend; without it every example of appendicitis would
   be fatal. The phenomena of a cough and cold were in the main
   manifestations of a cure. Without them a common cold might
   become fatal. The catarrh and persistent sneezing were practical
   means of dislodging bacteria from the nasal passage, and the
   cough of removing the bacteria from the windpipe. Again, the
   whole of the manifestations of tuberculosis were expressions
   of unflagging efforts on the part of the body to oppose the
   progress of invading bacterium. (Text.)--New York _Sun_.

    (791)


                          DISEASE, CAUSES OF

   At the present moment there are two theories in the field
   to explain the origin of contagious diseases--the parasitic
   theory and the theory of the innate character of diseases.
   The parasitic theory assumes that diseases are originated by
   microbes first diffused in the atmosphere, and then taken into
   the system by the air we breathe, the water we drink, the things
   we touch. The advocates of the innate character of diseases
   hold, on the contrary, that the disease is spontaneously
   developed in the patient; the first cause is in morbid changes
   which are purely chemical, changes produced in the actual
   substance of the tissues and secretions without any external
   intervention of microbes; the microbes, where they really
   exist, being only a secondary phenomenon, a complication,
   and not the scientific cause which actually terminates the
   disease. Now, whatever may be the exact truth in this biological
   controversy, it is evident that the first cause of such
   disease must be sought in a defect of life, a feebleness, a
   certain untoward disposition and receptivity in the organism
   itself. The phylloxera devastates the French vineyards because
   the vines have been exhausted by excessive cultivation;
   tuberculosis fastens upon man because of obscure conditions of
   bodily weakness and susceptibility; vigorous plants and robust
   constitutions defying the foreign destructive bodies which may
   fill the air--extrinsic influence and excitement counting for
   little where the intrinsic tendency does not exist.

Revelation assumes that the man morally occupies much the same
position. Environment brings the opportunity for evil, the solicitation
or provocation to evil, so far do evil communications corrupt good
manners; but the first cause of all must be found in the heart
itself, in its lack of right direction, sympathy, and force; in a
word, the scientific cause of sin is the spiritual cause--W. L.
WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (792)


                        DISEASE, EXEMPTION FROM

   Breweries and tanneries and printing-ink factories confer
   exemption from tuberculosis, and employees in turpentine
   factories never have rheumatism. Copper-mining excludes the
   possibility of typhoid among the workers.

   Shepherds enjoy remarkable health. The odd odor of sheep appears
   to exercise some influence tending to the prevention of disease.
   Sheep are especially good for whooping-cough, so that in a sheep
   country, when a child is taken down with that malady, it is the
   custom for the mother to put it among the sheep to play. The
   next day, it is said, the child will be well.

   Men and women working in lavender, whether gathering or
   distilling it, are said never to suffer from neuralgia or
   nervous headache. Lavender, moreover, is as good as a sea voyage
   for giving tone to the system. Persons suffering from nervous
   breakdown frequently give their services gratis to lavender
   plants, in order that they may build up their vitality.

   Salt-miners can wear summer clothes in blizzard weather without
   fear of catching cold, for colds are unknown among these
   workers.--_Harper’s Weekly_.

    (793)


   =Disease Traveling=--See EVIL, VIRULENCY OF.


   =Disguise of Temptation=--See IMAGINATION, LURE OF.


                           DISGUISED DANGER

The dangers to moral integrity most to be guarded against are those
which come disguised, and are often hard to detect.

   D. W. Whittle tells of a soldier who was posted in a forest to
   watch the approach of Indians. It was a position of peculiar
   danger, three different men having been surprized and killed at
   this post without having had time to fire a shot. The soldier
   was left with strict orders to observe the utmost vigilance. In
   a short time an object moving among the trees at some distance
   caught his eye. He watched it, with gun ready; as it came a
   little nearer, he saw it to be a wild hog. Another came in
   sight. He satisfied himself it was a wild hog, rooting under
   the leaves. Presently, in another direction, the leaves were
   rustled and a third wild hog appeared. Being now used to these
   creatures, he paid but little attention. The movements of the
   last animal, however, soon engaged the man’s thoughts. He
   observed a slight awkwardness in its movements, and thought
   possibly an Indian might be approaching, covered in a hog’s
   skin. If it was an Indian the safest thing was to shoot. If it
   was not an Indian, and he should shoot, he would run no risk.
   He raised his rifle and fired. With a bound and a yell, an
   Indian leapt to his feet and fell back dead. The man had saved
   his life, and prevented the surprize of the garrison by his
   watchfulness. (Text.)

    (794)


                              DISHONESTY

   Once D. L. Moody was talking to a man who sold soap which he
   claimed would do all kinds of remarkable things, including the
   removing of spots caused by grease. The man was, nevertheless,
   very perturbed, and at last he told Mr. Moody what his trouble
   was. “The soap accomplishes all that I assert; but the truth is
   that it also rots all the clothes which it washes. If I become
   a Christian, I shall have to give up my business, and I can not
   bring myself to do that.” The evangelist used to say that it was
   only soap which stood between this man and a Christian life.
   (Text.)

    (795)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Henry Ward Beecher tells a story of a man in the Canadian
   backwoods, who, during the summer months, had procured a stock
   of fuel sufficient for the winter. This man had a neighbor
   who was very indolent, and not very honest, and who, having
   neglected to provide against the winter storms, was mean enough
   to avail himself of his neighbor’s supplies without the latter’s
   permission or knowledge. Mr. Beecher states that it was found,
   on computation, that the thief had actually spent more time in
   watching for opportunities to steal, and labored more arduously
   to remove the wood (to say nothing of the risk and penalty of
   detection), than the man who in open daylight, and by honest
   means, had gathered it.

    (796)


   =Dishonesty Discovered=--See EVIDENCE, PROVIDENTIAL.


   =Dishonesty in Business=--See BUSINESS CHEATING.


   =Disillusionment=--See LABELS, MISLEADING.


   =Disobedience=--See CONSCIENCE A MONITOR.


   =Disobedience Approved=--See HIGHER LAW, THE.


   =Disparity=--See MASSES, AMONG THE.


   =Disparity in Punishment=--See INJUSTICE; DECAY.


                             DISPLACEMENT

A right once surrendered may be lost forever.

   A story is told by the Kermanjis of Persia of how the jackals
   came to inhabit the desert. In olden days the jackals were
   the domesticated pets of Kerman, while the dogs dwelt among
   the ruins outside the city walls. The wily dogs asked the
   noble jackals if they would not exchange places for just three
   days, in order that the invalids among the dogs might recover
   their strength and health, at the same time enlarging upon the
   beauties of the desert life. The generous jackals consented.
   But when the stipulated period expired the dogs declined to
   yield their place, saying, “No, thank you, we prefer to stay
   where we are, and do not wish ever to return to the desert.” So
   the outwitted jackals went howling away, and have been wailing
   nightly ever since.

    (797)

   See PROGRESS BY DISPLACEMENT.


   =Display, Vain=--See NOTORIETY.


                             DISPROPORTION

The number of small men in high places is far greater than of large men
in low places. The latter do not remain long in cramped conditions.

The Hon. William E. Chandler, Secretary of the Navy under President
Arthur, relates this incident of Assistant Surgeon Ver Mulen. The
story, as printed in _Harper’s Weekly_, runs as follows:

   That officer was 6 feet 4 inches in height, a fact that
   occasioned him much discomfort when he was serving on the old
   _Penobscot_, the height of the vessel between decks being
   only 5 feet and 8 inches. As Surgeon Ver Mulen considered the
   matter, he remembered that long letters to the Navy Department
   were not always given that prompt attention he thought should be
   afforded in the present instance, so he determined to approach
   the authorities in a manner novel enough to impress them with
   the gravity of the situation. So he addrest his superior officer
   in this wise:

   “The Honorable the Secretary of the Navy.

   “Sir: Length of surgeon, 6 feet 4 inches; height of wardroom, 5
   feet 8 inches.

    “Respectfully,
    “E. C. VER MULEN,
    “Assistant Surgeon, U.S.N.”

   Shortly after, the Navy Department detached Ver Mulen “until
   such time as a more suitable ship could be found for his
   assignment.”

    (798)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Artists have a good many queer customers, and they have
   advantages for observing what vague ideas it is possible for a
   man to entertain respecting art and nature, too. An ex-soldier
   went to the studio of D. J. Gue, of Brooklyn, one day, to
   inspect a picture of Lookout Mountain that the artist had been
   painting. The picture pleased him, and he evidently had thoughts
   of purchase, but he was suddenly struck with a brilliant idea
   that he communicated thus: “I was in that fight, mister, and
   I’d like you to paint my picture on that. Let’s see. You could
   paint me right here in this field, facing front, with my left
   hand resting on top of the mountain.” The man was in thorough
   earnest. He did not see that if drawn to scale his finger would
   be about 5,000 feet high, and that he would have a reach of arm
   that would enable him to grasp at an object six or seven miles
   away. Mr. Gue precipitately declined the commission.--Brooklyn
   _Eagle_.

    (799)


                        DISPROPORTION OF PRAISE

   The case of De Quincey in regard to opium-eating, is analogous
   to the case of a painter who has no hands, and had learned to
   paint with his toes. Many estimable artists might paint as well
   with their hands; but it is natural that the man who paints with
   his toes should be much more talked of, and attract a quite
   disproportionate share of fame. The wonder is, to quote Dr.
   Johnson’s phrase, not that the thing is done well, but that it
   is done at all.--W. J. DAWSON, “The Makers of English
   Prose.”

    (800)


   =Dissipation of Force=--See FRICTION DISSIPATING FORCE.


                               DISTANCE

   As I came into your city to-night I saw your great structure
   [Brooklyn Bridge] across the river here, binding the two great
   cities together and making them one, and I remember that as I
   came the last time into your beautiful bay down yonder, I saw
   what seemed to be a mere web of gossamer, a bare hand’s breadth
   along the horizon. It seemed as if I might have swept it away
   with my hand if I could have reached it, so airy and light it
   was in the distance, but when I came close to it to-night I
   found that it was one of the greatest structures that human
   intellect has ever devised. I saw it thrilling and vibrating
   with every energy of our pulsating, modern life. At a distance
   it looked as if the vessels nearest would strike it, full head,
   and carry it away. When I reached it I saw that it was so high,
   so vast, that the traffic of your great stream passed easily
   backward and forward under it. So it is with some problems. They
   may appear very small to you, ladies and gentlemen, or to us,
   when seen at a distance--as tho merely a handsweep would get rid
   of them; but nearer at hand they appear too vast to be moved
   easily.--THOMAS NELSON PAGE.

    (801)

   See POINT OF VIEW; RETROSPECT.


   =Distance and Nearness=--See RETROSPECT.


   =Distinctions, Vain=--See SELFISHNESS.


   =Distinctions, Unfair=--See DISCRIMINATION, UNFAIR.


   =Disturbance=--See BAPTISM.


                                DISUSE

   Moored off the famous White Tower of Salonica lay, year after
   year, a small, dirty, uncared-for, antiquated gunboat, the
   solitary representative of the Turkish Navy. It never moved. But
   when Turkey awoke the gunboat was ordered to Constantinople to
   join in the rejoicings. Steam was got up and preparations were
   made to raise the anchor, but in vain. It had become wedded to
   the solid rock. So the chain was cut and the anchor left in its
   chosen resting-place.

    (802)

   See ATROPHY; DEGENERACY THROUGH DISEASE.


                          DIVERSE INFLUENCES

   Man, after all, is not ripened by virtue alone. Were it so,
   this world were a paradise of angels. No; like the growth of
   the earth, he is the fruit of all seasons, the accident of a
   thousand accidents, a living mystery moving through the seen
   to the unseen; he is sown in dishonor; he is matured under all
   the varieties of heat and cold, in mists and wrath, in snow and
   vapors, in the melancholy of autumn, in the torpor of winter as
   well as in the rapture and fragrance of summer, or the balmy
   affluence of spring, its breath, its sunshine; at the end he
   is reaped, the product not of one climate but of all; not of
   good alone but of sorrow, perhaps mellowed and ripened, perhaps
   stricken and withered and sour. How, then, shall we judge
   any one?--how, at any rate, shall we judge a giant, great in
   gifts and great in temptation, great in strength, and great in
   weakness? Let us glory in his strength and be comforted in his
   weakness, and when we thank heaven for the inestimable gift of
   Burns, we do not need to remember wherein he was imperfect, we
   can not bring ourselves to regret that he was made of the same
   clay as ourselves.--LORD ROSEBERY.

    (803)


                       DIVERSION BY SMALL THINGS

The story of the way in which John Wesley partly failed in an attempt
to gain back certain seceders from his following is told by the Rev. W.
H. Fitchett, as follows:

   According to the Moravians themselves, the dramatic effect of
   Wesley’s departure from the building was spoiled by a petty but
   ingenious trick. As the persons present came into the room they
   placed their hats all together on the ground in one corner;
   but Wesley’s hat had been--by design--carried off. When he had
   finished his paper and called upon all who agreed with him to
   follow him, he walked across the room, but could not discover
   his hat! The pause, the search which followed, quite effaced the
   impressiveness of his departure, and, as Southey puts it, “The
   wily Molther and his followers had time to arrest many who would
   have been carried away in his wake.”--“Wesley and His Century.”

    (804)


   =Diversity Desirable=--See TALENTS DIFFER.


   =Diversity in Work=--See HEADWORK.


   =Diverting the Mind=--See OFFENDED FEELINGS.


   =Divine Wisdom Best=--See PLAYTHINGS, EARTH’S.


                               DIVINITY

    All things are mine; to all things I belong;
      I mingle in them--heeding bounds nor bars--
    Float in the cloud, melt in the river’s song;
        In the clear wave from rock to rock I leap,
        Widen away, and slowly onward creep;
      I stretch forth glimmering hands beneath the stars
        And lose my little murmur in the deep.

    Yea, more than that: whatever I behold--
        Dark forest, mountain, the o’erarching wheel
    Of heaven’s solemn turning, all the old
        Immeasurable air and boundless sea--
        Yields of its life, builds life and strength in me
      For tasks to come, while I but see and feel,
        And merely am, and it is joy to be.

    Lo, that small spark within us is not blind
      To its beginning; struck from one vast soul
    Which, in the framework of the world, doth bind
        All parts together; small, but still agreeing
        With That which molded us without our seeing;
      Since God is all, and all in all--the Whole
        In whom we live and move and have our being. (Text.)

    --SAMUEL V. COLE, _The Critic_.

    (805)


                         DIVINITY IN PHENOMENA

   Not a planet that wheels its circle around its controlling
   flame, not a sun that pours its blaze upon the black ether, not
   one of all the constellated chandeliers that burn in the dome
   of heaven, not a firmament that spots the robe of space with a
   fringe of light, but is a visible statement of a conception,
   wish, or purpose in the mind of God, from which it was born, and
   to which alone it owes its continuance and form.--THOMAS
   STARR KING.

    (806)


                                DIVORCE

   The growth of the divorce evil in recent years has been a
   subject of wide comment, and many remedies have been advocated.
   The diagrams and maps here shown indicate the increase and
   present status of divorces in the United States as compared with
   other lands.

  [Illustration: DIVORCE-RATE PER 100,000 POPULATION IN
  1900. (See DIVORCE.)]

   This diagram affords a comparison between the divorce-rate in
   the United States and in certain foreign countries.

  [Illustration: SHOWING NUMBER OF DIVORCES GRANTED FOR
  CERTAIN SPECIFIED CAUSES, FROM 1867 TO 1906. (See
  DIVORCE.)]

  [Illustration: MARRIAGE MAP OF THE UNITED STATES.
  (See DIVORCE.)]

   This chart is based on the average annual number of marriages
   per 10,000 adult unmarried population in the various States and
   Territories.

  [Illustration: DIVORCE MAP OF THE UNITED STATES.
  (See DIVORCE.)]

   This diagram is based on the average annual number of divorces
   per 100,000 married population in the various States and
   Territories.

    (807)

   See BIRTH-RATE IN FRANCE.


                          DOCILITY, SPIRITUAL

An argument for man’s spiritual docility ought easily to be seen in his
ignorance. He is blind but presumptuous. Nature herself ought to teach
him better. As one says:

   Just as when the yellow fog broods over London, all the
   illuminations devised by man can not penetrate it; just as in
   the dark country road on the misty night, the brightest lamp is
   of no more avail than a farthing rushlight; so no argument of
   men can remove the mists which becloud the soul. We only do what
   we have to do in the physical world--wait till the sun comes
   back.

If man be so encompassed by ignorance in the physical realm, how can
he walk in the spiritual. Let him humble himself, if he would really
understand. Let him obey, that he may know.

    (808)


   =Dog as a Detective=--See ANIMAL INTELLIGENCE.


                          DOGMATISM, MISTAKEN

   I had heard that nothing had been observed in ancient times
   which could be called by the name of glass--that there had been
   merely attempts to imitate it. I thought they had proved the
   proposition. They certainly had elaborated it. In Pompeii, a
   dozen miles south of Naples, which was covered with ashes by
   Vesuvius eighteen hundred years ago, they broke into a room
   full of glass; there was ground-glass, window-glass, cut-glass,
   and colored-glass of every variety. It was undoubtedly a
   glass-maker’s factory. So the lie and refutation came face to
   face. It was like a pamphlet printed in London, in 1836, by
   Dr. Lardner, which proved that a steamboat could not cross the
   ocean; and the book came to this country in the first steamboat
   that came across the Atlantic.--WENDELL PHILLIPS.

    (809)


   =Doing=--See FEEDING, TOO MUCH; SERVICE.


                         DOING AS AN INCENTIVE

   A woman once came to me and asked if it were not possible to
   give her husband something to do in the church. “He evinces but
   little interest; just give him something to do, and I think he
   will attend.” In support of her belief she recounted how her
   husband, lacking interest in a lodge to which he belonged, was
   made a very regular attendant. “He was elected,” she said, “the
   high and mighty potentate of the eastern door. Now he attends
   the lodge regularly every Thursday night.” Think of it--a
   sensible man walking up and down in a closet-like room, and
   challenging all who would enter. All this because he was given
   something to do. There is much philosophy in this. Young people
   need direction in the line of that in which they are interested,
   and in which they particularly are best capable of doing. There
   should be enough specific work to go around.--CHARLES
   LUTHER KLOSS, “Proceedings of the Religious Education
   Association,” 1904.

    (810)


   =Doing Things for Themselves=--See ADAPTABILITY.


   =Doing Without Learning=--See AUTOMATIC LEARNING.


                DOLL, PLACE OF THE, IN THE CHILD’S LIFE

   The delight which a little girl sometimes experiences in getting
   hold of a doll that belonged to her mother when she was a little
   girl--a quaint, china-headed and china-haired little creature,
   with low neck and short sleeves and very full ruffled skirt--is
   a tame thing when compared with the feelings that any girl must
   experience over a doll now in the British Museum. This doll is
   almost three thousand years old.

   When some archeologists were exploring an ancient Egyptian royal
   tomb they came upon a sarcophagus containing the mummy of a
   little princess seven years old. She was drest and interred in
   a manner befitting her rank, and in her arms was found a little
   wooden doll.

   The inscription gave the name, rank and age of the little girl
   and the date of her death, but it said nothing about the quaint
   little wooden Egyptian doll. This, however, told its own story.
   It was so tightly clasped in the arms of the mummy that it was
   evident that the child had died with her beloved doll in her
   arms.

   The simple pathos of this story has touched many hearts after
   thousands of years. The doll occupies a place in a glass case in
   the British Museum, and there a great many children have gone to
   look at it.--_Youth’s Companion._

    (811)


   =Dollar, His First=--See _Money, Earning_.


                           DOMESTIC HEROISM

There are all sorts of heroes and the domestic life knows them as well
as some other more conspicuous fields of action. The little things
of life afford a field for the exercise of the heroic as well as the
larger. A news item, with a touch of the humorous, tells the following:

   Some women were discussing over their afternoon tea the
   statement that a man is no more a hero to his wife than to his
   valet. There seemed to be no opposition to the idea that a man’s
   servant did not appreciate him, but all stoutly maintained that
   their husbands were heroic--in one way or another.

   “My husband is very heroic,” said Mrs. Black. “For instance, he
   will give up his visit to the club to play jackstraws with my
   old mother, and she is his mother-in-law, you know.”

   “I think I can beat that,” remarked Mrs. Gray. “When my
   milliner’s quarterly bill comes in my husband smiles as he
   writes a check, and never thinks of looking at the items.”

   “I can give you a better example than either of those!”
   exclaimed Mrs. White. “When the morning paper comes at
   breakfast-time my husband always offers me the first reading of
   it.”

   An informal vote awarded the last speaker’s husband the medal of
   heroism.

    (812)


                           DOMINANT ELEMENTS

   Every animate or inanimate structure responds to some chord
   or note of music, called, I believe, the dominant. We have
   all felt some building vibrate in unison with the pulsation
   of some note of a musical instrument; we have felt “creepy”
   shivers run through us as some musical chord is sounded. It
   is well known that animals are strangely affected by certain
   harmonies. Some day, when civilization has advanced, I believe
   that these evidences of psychological structure will be better
   understood. It will be recognized that vice and virtue are in
   accord with different harmonies, and yield to the power of
   different dominants; and, when once the classification is made,
   and the disclosures of the dominant understood, then the extent
   and influence of the dominant will be a psychological test to
   define the character and ruling passions of men’s nature, and to
   decide the fitness of men for the various pursuits of life, and
   even for life itself. (Text.)--ARTHUR DUDLEY VINTON,
   _American Magazine_.

    (813)


   =Dominion of Man=--See MASTERY OF NATURE.


   =Doors, Opening Human=--See RECEPTIVENESS.


                      DOUBLE MEANINGS, DANGER OF

The last great martyr to the double meaning in our Constitution,
mentioned below, was Lincoln. It was a clause that protected the most
gigantic evil of history:

   An American historian says of the Constitution of the United
   States: “Our Constitution in its spirit and legitimate utterance
   is doubtless the noblest document which ever emanated from the
   mind of man. It contains not one word hostile to liberty.... But
   yet ingloriously, guiltily, under sore temptation, we consented
   to use one phrase susceptible of a double meaning, ‘held to
   service or labor.’ (Article IV Section 2.) These honest words
   at the North mean a hired man, an apprentice. At the South
   they mean a slave, feudal bondage. So small, apparently so
   insignificant, were those seeds sown in our Constitution which
   have resulted in such a harvest of misery.”

    (814)


                           DOUBLE-MINDEDNESS

Charles Wagner, in “The Gospel of Life,” remarks thus on the double
nature of men:

   Duplicity, rending apart, partition of the will and of the
   heart, lamentable division--that is our life! It is not a
   continuous chain; it is only links broken and dispersed. We are
   peace-loving, just, truthful, sober, chaste, disinterested; but
   we are also malicious, unjust, cunning, intemperate, impure.
   We are like those ships that carry to the colonies, along with
   the Bibles and religious tracts, cannon, alcohol, and opium; or
   those poets full of contrary talents, who play turn by turn on
   the sacred lyre and on the strident conch-shell.

    (815)


                        DOUBT ISSUING IN PEACE


    The peace of God descends more softly shed
      Than light upon the deep,
    And sinks below the tumult of my years
      Deeper than dreams or sleep.

    And somehow, as of dusk was born the star
      Whose fire is on the sea,
    Another star from doubt’s profounder dark
      Is risen and shines on me. (Text.)

    --HENRY FLETCHER HARRIS, _Harper’s Magazine_.

    (816)


                          DOUBTS, DISSOLVING

   Crossing the Atlantic, a vessel is often encircled by small
   ice-floes, looking like a flock of white sheep on the blue
   ocean. When they started on their course southward, those
   ice-floes were great frozen masses. But the warm Gulf Stream
   played on them beneath, and the sun melted them from above, till
   they dwindled as they entered a warm atmosphere. A man’s doubts
   at first seem large enough to freeze his faith, but let him go
   steadily onward into the warm atmosphere of Christian love, and
   gradually his doubts will no more impede his progress than the
   ice-floes impede an ocean-liner.

    (817)


                               DOURNESS

   If I could present the picture of a Scotch Highland cow, with
   her calf by her side, watching the approach of a tourist whom
   she thinks is coming too near--could I depict the expression
   of her face; that, I would say, would fairly represent what is
   meant by “dour.” Not that the cow would take the aggressive,
   but, if interfered with, I’ll warrant she would not be the one
   permanently injured. Led by this trait a certain Scotchman
   always stood up during prayers when others were kneeling, and
   sat down when others stood to sing, because, as he exprest it,
   the ordinary method was the only one used by the English and he
   wasn’t going to do as they did.--JOHN WATSON.

    (818)


                            DOWN GRADE, THE

   The terrible crimes and miseries of the East End of London have
   recently been brought into great prominence, and one of the
   most distressing features of this subject is that considerable
   numbers of these appallingly miserable characters were once
   respectable and happy. They were the children of honorable
   parents, they were trained in schools and sanctuaries, they were
   members of rich and influential circles; then they chose the
   down grade; they were first guilty of unbecomingness, then of
   acts of graver misconduct; at length their friends lost sight
   of them, they lost sight of their friends; then ever lower
   lodging-houses, lower ginshops, lower pawnshops, until at last
   those who had been tenderly nursed, educated in universities,
   clothed in scarlet, were submerged in filth, crime, misery,
   simply unutterable. All this dire catastrophe once seemed
   impossible to them, as now it seems impossible to us; but
   forget not that the doubtful ever passes into the bad, the bad
   into the worse, the worse into the unspeakable.--W. L.
   WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (819)


                          DREAM, VALUE OF THE

   A pillow-dream is a night adventure of your subconscious self.
   You wander without volition in a weird world and come back with
   a tantalized and fleeting recollection of fantastic persons and
   impossible situations. The metaphysical mystery of this sort of
   dreams has never been cleared, but it is certain that the fruits
   gathered in these sunless excursions are of doubtful flavor
   and quickly perishable. Fortunately, we are capable of dreams
   which are not pillow-dreams--dreams which are best dreamed when
   the spine is vertical and every fiber of mind, soul, and heart
   vibrant and vital. On these occasions we are in the clasp of our
   best mood--the mood of concept and creation. The wine of this
   mood is red like blood and the resultant intoxication is the
   holiest experience of which we are capable. In its high hours
   the soul is never maudlin or fuddled; it grips life strongly and
   deals with it in divine fashion, whipping its fugitive elements
   into orderly submission, compelling them to assume a useful
   steadiness like that of the dependable planets which can be
   found nightly at a given point in the heavens.--_Metropolitan
   Magazine._

    (820)


                                DREAMS

   (“Behold, this dreamer cometh”)

    They stript me bare and left me by the way
      To pine forsaken in a lonely land;
    They gave me to night-frosts and burning day
      To griefs none understand.

    They took my silver from me and my gold,
      The changing splendors of my rich array;
    Night’s silver rain of dew escaped their hold,
      And the fine gold of day.

    On the world’s highway in vain pomp they tread;
      By paths unknown I stray and hidden streams;
    They took all else and left me there for dead;
      They could not take my dreams.

    Still, morning comes with marvel as of old;
      Still in soft rose descends the eventide;
    Still in the castle of my heart, grown bold,
      The sweet, swift thoughts abide.

    Pass by, pass by, O clamorous folk and wild!
      To this last fortress of the soul I cling;
    Men gave me winter weather from a child,
    But God has given me spring. (Text.)

    --ROBIN FLOWER, _The London Spectator_.

    (821)

   See FULFILMENT DISAPPOINTING; IDEALS.


                         DRESS AFFECTING MOODS

Mrs. Bishop, in the _Chautauqua Herald_, says:

   It may never have occurred to some of you that dress has any
   reactionary influence upon the inner states, but so potent is
   this influence that frequently we can change the mental states
   by a change of dress. When tired, gloomy or fretful, a change in
   apparel often means a change in mood. Many actors say that to be
   drest for the part is a great help toward feeling the part. An
   army general once declared that he could not fight without his
   uniform, that an ordinary hat and coat took all the courage out
   of him.

    (822)


   =Dress in the East=--See PROPRIETY, OBSERVING THE RULES OF.


   =Drifting Avoided=--See DANGER, AVOIDING.


                                 DRINK

   “Many a good story is told of the old bonanza days,” said a San
   Franciscan. “I liked especially a whisky story.

   “A tenderfoot, the story ran, entered a saloon and ordered
   whisky. Whisky in those days and in those parts was a very weird
   drink. Queer effects were sure to follow it. The tenderfoot
   knew he must expect something out of the common, but, for all
   that, he was taken aback when the bartender handed him a small
   whisk-broom along with the bottle and glass.

   “Tenderfoot-like, he didn’t care to expose his ignorance by
   asking what the whisk-broom was for, so he just stood there and
   fidgeted. He didn’t drink. He waited in the hope that somebody
   would come in and show him what was what.

   “Well, in a few minutes a big chap in a red shirt entered. He,
   too, ordered whisky, and he, too, got a broom.

   “The tenderfoot watched him closely. He poured himself a
   generous drink, tossed it off, and, taking up his whisk-broom,
   went over into a corner and carefully cleaned, on the floor,
   a space about 7 feet by 3. There he laid down and had a
   fit.”--Detroit _Free Press_.

    (823)

   See ABSTAINERS LIVE LONG; BEER, EFFECT OF; ALCOHOLIC BAIT.


                        DRINK AND NATIVE RACES

   Missionaries are constantly emphasizing the horrors consequent
   on the drink traffic among the natives of Africa. Bishop
   Johnson, one of its able native bishops, declared that “European
   commerce, weighted as this commerce has been for many years
   with the liquor traffic, has been as great a curse to Africa,
   a greater than the oceanic slave-trade.” Even still more
   effective was a statement made by a Christian negro speaking to
   an audience in England, when he brought out of a bag an ugly
   idol and said, “This repulsive object is what we worshiped
   in times past,” and then he added, “Now I will show you what
   England has sent to be our god to-day,” and produced an empty
   gin-bottle.--JESSE PAGE, “The Black Bishop.”

    (824)


                           DRINK, EFFECTS OF

   I was standing on the sidewalk in a Southern city where at the
   time I was engaged in evangelistic work. A physician who was an
   active helper came along in his buggy, and, stopping his horse,
   requested me to take a seat at his side.

   “I want to take you,” he said as we drove off, “to see a most
   deplorable and helpless case--a widow and her son. She is
   totally blind; in fact, she has cried her eyes out. You have
   heard of people who cried their eyes out, but now you will see
   one of whom it is literally true. The son is only twenty-four
   years of age, and a splendid machinist; but he got to fooling
   with drink and wild young men, until now the habit is so fixt
   upon him he is almost an imbecile. I have a commitment for him
   in my pocket to send him to the asylum. It is the only hope for
   him now.”

   We arrived at the house, a poor little desolate-looking place,
   in painful accord with the pitiful lives within. The woman rose
   to greet us at the sound of the doctor’s voice. She was of
   medium size, neatly drest, but plainly. Her white face, without
   the slightest suggestion of color, was partly framed with
   grayish-brown hair. Her eyes did not seem sightless to me, but
   only a dull dark blue.

   There sat the young man, his face buried in his hands, the
   picture of misery, a life surrendered to the evil of drink,
   and in ruins. “I have brought the minister,” said the doctor,
   “because I knew you’d like to have him pray with you and talk
   with your son.” She assented readily, and even with an effort
   to smile; but the smile died upon her lips. The young man was
   perfectly sane, and talked willingly of his condition. “I just
   can’t help it,” he said. “I love mother, and I can easily take
   care of her; but, when I get where whisky is, I can’t help
   getting drunk. Then it looks as if I’d never get sober any
   more. Yes, sir,” he said in reply to the doctor, “I’ll be glad
   to go. I hate to leave mother,” nodding his head toward the
   frail creature who sat silent while the tears literally rolled
   down her face; “but I’m willing to do anything to get right.”

   Months passed. I was there again. Meeting the doctor one day in
   the street, I stopt him.

   “Tell me about the poor woman, doctor, and her boy,” I asked.
   “Get into my buggy, and we will take a drive, and you shall see
   for yourself.” We drove along, talking as we went; but he did
   not explain. He continued his drive out of the city, and finally
   turned his horse’s head into what I saw was the cemetery.
   Passing monuments and vaults and richly carved marble, we went
   on to the very outer edge. “Now we will get out and walk a few
   steps,” he said. I followed him, knowing now, of course, what it
   meant; but I knew only in part. Stopping at two unmarked graves,
   not a stone or board or flower, desolate in death as in life,
   he pointed to one, and said: “That’s the son. He came back from
   the asylum, and we thought he was cured; but he fell in with his
   old companions, and a few days later his body was found in a
   pond near the city, and a bottle half filled with whisky in his
   pocket. And that’s the mother. She survived him only a few days.
   When they brought his body into her little home, she sank under
   her weight of grief, and never rallied. She had cried herself to
   sleep.”--H. M. WHARTON, _Christian Endeavor World_.

    (825)


                          DRINK, HERITAGE OF

   The jovial, genial drunkard of the Anglo-Saxon times is a
   rare personage nowadays, and tho there may be men as fond
   of sack as Falstaff himself, they seem to have lost the
   intense sociability which was the characteristic of the burly
   knight. Nearly all the great men of the Napoleonic era were
   drinkers--Pitt, Fox, Sheridan, Wellington himself. Napoleon’s
   marshals had the soldier’s pet failing, and it is said of stern
   old Blücher that he slept in his boots and went to bed in a
   more or less pronounced condition of intoxication for thirty
   years. Byron boasted of having drank a dozen bottles of wine in
   a day, and his “Don Juan” was composed under the influence of
   gin. Thackeray loved the bottle, so did Dickens. The children
   suffer for the failings of their sires, and many of the nervous
   symptoms and morbid cravings which perplex physicians in the
   young men and women of to-day are in reality legacies bequeathed
   by overbibulous ancestors. (Text.)--Baltimore _Herald_.

    (826)


                            DRINK, PERIL OF

   A number of years ago a certain firm of four men in Boston were
   rated as “A1.” They were rich, prosperous, young and prompt.

   One of them had the curiosity to see how they were rated, and
   found these facts in Dun’s and was satisfied, but at the end
   these words were added: “But they all drink.”

   He thought it a good joke at the time, but a few years later two
   of them were dead, another was a drunkard, and the fourth was
   poor and living partly on charity.

   That one little note at the end of their rating was the most
   important and significant of all the facts collected and
   embodied in their description. (Text.)

    (827)


                      DROUGHT, RESPONSIBILITY FOR

When the electric trolley-cars were first set running in Seoul, a
peculiar result manifested itself in the nation. We quote from _The
Outlook_:

   Little by little the heavens grew dry and the earth rolled up
   clouds of dust; day followed day with no signs of rain, and
   the caking paddy-fields grinned and gasped. What could be the
   cause of it? The geomancers and ground-prophets were consulted,
   and their answer was, “The devil that runs the thunder and
   lightning wagon has caused the drought.” Eyes no longer looked
   with curiosity but glared at the trolley-cars, and men swore
   under their breath and curst the “vile beast” as it went humming
   by, till, worked up beyond endurance, there was a crash and an
   explosion, one car had been rolled over, and another was set on
   fire, while a mob of thousands took possession of the streets
   foaming and stamping like wild beasts.

    (828)


                               DRUDGERY

It may be that even the work of “holystoning” the deck of a ship could
become an act of devotion if done in the right spirit, notwithstanding
this seaman’s aversion to it:

   “This is what you call the sailor’s prayer-book,” a seaman said
   bitterly as he kicked a holystone out of the way. “Why is it
   called that? Well, in the first place, it is called that because
   in using it, in holystoning the deck, the sailor has to kneel
   down; and in the second place, because all holystoning is done
   on Sunday. Don’t you know the chantey?

    “‘Six days shalt thou work and do all that thou art able,
    And on the seventh holystone the decks and scrape the cable.’

   “The stone is called holystone because the first holystones
   were bits of tombs stolen from cemeteries. It’s got a pious,
   religious sound--holy, and prayer-book, and Sunday and all
   that--but it is when he is using this stone that the seaman is
   most profane.”

    (829)

   See BEST, MAKING THE.


   =Drudgery as a Teacher=--See HUMDRUM DEVELOPMENT.


                           DRUDGERY RELIEVED

   When Lucy Larcom was fourteen years old she worked in a
   cotton-mill in Lowell, Mass. After she had been there a few
   weeks, says _The Youth’s Companion_, she asked and received
   permission to tend some frames which were near a window,
   through which she might look out on the Merrimac River and its
   picturesque banks.

   After she had worked there a little while longer, she began to
   make the window-seat and frame into a library. She pasted the
   grimy paint all over with clippings of verse which she gathered
   from such newspapers and magazines as fell into her hands.

   So the little factory drudge secured for herself three
   essentials for human happiness: work, the sight of nature, and
   the beauty of the poet’s vision. No doubt the work was often
   wearisome. Perhaps some of the poetry was not very good. But
   the river and its meadows and hills must have been always
   refreshing, and the spirit which so intelligently desired the
   best in the world could not have faltered even on a toilsome
   path.

    (830)


   =Drunkard’s Fate=--See DRINK, EFFECTS OF.


   =Drunkards Saving Drunkards=--See PERSONAL INFLUENCE.


   =Drunkard’s Soul=--See DEFACEMENT OF SOUL.


                          DRUNKARD’S WILL, A

   It was written just before he committed suicide. “I leave to
   the world a wasted character and ruinous example; I leave to
   my parents as great a sorrow as in their weakness they could
   possibly bear; I leave to my brothers and sisters as much
   shame and dishonor as I could have brought them; I leave to my
   wife a broken heart and a life full of shame; I leave to my
   children poverty, ignorance, a bad character and the memory of
   their father lying in a drunkard’s grave and having gone to
   a drunkard’s hell.” This is typical. Decent men are becoming
   sick at heart with this thing. We are now in the midst of a
   war that promises to become world-wide, relentless until our
   Christian obligation to the world is fully met. Since religion,
   business, science, education and the State have taken the field
   against drink there is certain promise of victory.--_Methodist
   Recorder._

    (831)


   =Drunkenness, Disastrous=--See DEBAUCH, FATAL.


   =Drunkenness, Safeguard Against=--See SAFEGUARD FOR DRUNKARDS.


                      DRUNKENNESS, THE TRAGEDY OF

A recent orator gives this incident:

   I think the subject has been kept back very much by the
   merriment people make over those slain by strong drink. I
   used to be very merry over these things, having a keen sense
   of the ludicrous. There was something very grotesque in the
   gait of a drunkard. It is not so now; for I saw in one of the
   streets of Philadelphia a sight that changed the whole subject
   to me. There was a young man being led home. He was very much
   intoxicated--he was raving with intoxication. Two young men were
   leading him along. The boys hooted in the street, men laughed,
   women sneered; but I happened to be very near the door where he
   went in--it was the door of his father’s house. I saw him go
   up-stairs. I heard him shouting, hooting and blaspheming. He had
   lost his hat, and the merriment increased with the mob until he
   came up to the door, and as the door was opened his mother came
   out. When I heard her cry, that took all the comedy away from
   the scene. Since that time, when I see a man walking through the
   street, reeling, the comedy is all gone, and it is a tragedy of
   tears and groans and heartbreaks. Never make any fun around me
   about the grotesqueness of a drunkard. Alas for his home!

    (832)


                            DUAL CHARACTER

   Samuel Johnson (1709–1784) who was certainly not the greatest
   writer of his age, perhaps not even a great writer at all,
   but who was nevertheless the dictator of English letters,
   still looms across the centuries of a magnificent literature
   as its most striking and original figure. Here, moreover, is
   a huge, fat, awkward man, of vulgar manners and appearance,
   who monopolizes conversation, abuses everybody, clubs down
   opposition--“Madam” (speaking to his cultivated hostess
   at table), “talk no more nonsense”; “Sir” (turning to a
   distinguished guest), “I perceive you are a vile Whig.” While
   talking he makes curious animal sounds, “sometimes giving a
   half whistle, sometimes clucking like a hen”; and when he has
   concluded a violent dispute and laid his opponents low by
   dogmatism or ridicule, he leans back to “blow out his breath
   like a whale” and gulp down numberless cups of hot tea. Yet this
   curious dictator of an elegant age was a veritable lion, much
   sought after by society; and around him in his own poor house
   gathered the foremost artists, scholars, actors, and literary
   men of London--all honoring the man, loving him, and listening
   to his dogmatism as the Greeks listened to the voice of their
   oracle.--WILLIAM J. LONG, “English Literature.”

    (833)


                                DUALITY

The peculiarity of the chameleon here described recalls Paul’s
description of the conflict between the natural and spiritual man:

   Notwithstanding the strictly symmetrical structure of the
   chameleon as to its two halves, the eyes move independently of
   one another and convey separate impressions to their respective
   centers of perception. The consequence is that when the animal
   is agitated its movements resemble those of two animals, or
   rather, perhaps, two halves of animals glued together. Each half
   wishes to go its own way and there is no concordance of action.
   The chameleon, therefore, is the only four-legged vertebrate
   that is unable to swim; it becomes so frightened when dropt
   into water that all faculty of concentration is lost, and
   the creature tumbles about as if in a state of intoxication.
   (Text.)--_The Scientific American._

    (834)


   =Duality of Human Nature=--See NATURE DUAL IN MAN.


   =Duel by Mail=--See MAKE-BELIEVE.


   =Dutch Trait, A=--See HUNGER, ENDURING.


                           DUST AND VIOLETS

    O sister mine--hold on a space
      In your dreadnaught campaign;
    A few weeks more--the selfsame place
      Will show more dust again;
    Just take a sniff of springtime air
      And let the cleaning wait;
    For, “Dust will keep, but violets won’t,”
      As some find out too late.

    --ADA M. FITTS, _Unity_.

    (835)


   =Dust Particles=--See IMPURITIES.


                        DUTIES, CATCHING ONE’S

“Caleb Cobweb,” of the _Christian Endeavor World_, gives the
following quaint advice:

   Some workmen were repairing the Boston Elevated Railway. One
   of them took a red-hot bolt in his pincers and threw it up to
   another workman, who was to place it in the hole drilled for it.
   The second workman failed to catch it, and it fell to the street
   below. There it struck a truck-load of twenty bales of cotton,
   a thousand dollars’ worth, that was passing at the moment. The
   cotton instantly took fire, but the driver knew nothing of it.
   The flames had made considerable headway when the cries of the
   onlookers informed the driver of what was going on. He had only
   enough time to leap out of the way of the flames and save his
   horse. The Boston Fire Department was summoned and put out the
   fire.

   This is a fair sample of what happens every time one of us
   workmen on the great edifice of human society misses a bolt that
   is thrown to him. They are many--these bolts--and they come
   thick and fast. They are red-hot, too, for they are duties that
   are in imperative need of getting done. If they are not at once
   stuck into the proper hole, and the top at once flattened out by
   sturdy blows, they grow cool and useless. They can not be put
   into the structure; or, if we go ahead and hammer them in, they
   are not tight and they may bring about disaster.

   No, there is nothing for it but to catch the bolts on the fly.
   Let one fall, and some one gets hurt--or some thing, which in
   the end, means some one. No one knows what will be hit when a
   worker misses a red-hot duty that comes flying at him.

   There is only one safety for the workman or for the rest of us:
   Catch them!

    (836)


                          DUTIES DISTRIBUTED

Here is a short sermon by a woman, tho not preached from a pulpit.
It is a good one, and is pretty sure to hit your own case somewhere,
whatever may be your age and circumstances:

   The best thing to give your enemy is forgiveness; to an
   opponent, tolerance; to a friend, your heart; to your child, a
   good example; to your father, deference; to your mother, conduct
   that will make her proud of you; to yourself, respect; to all
   men, charity.--_The Interior_.

    (837)


                                 DUTY

   There was a boy in Glasgow apprenticed to a gentleman who made
   telegraphs. The gentleman told me this himself. One day this boy
   was up on top of a four-story house with a number of men fixing
   up a telegraph-wire. The work was all but done. It was getting
   late, and the men said they were going away home, and the boy
   was to nip off the ends of the wire himself. Before going down
   they told him to be sure to go back to the workshop, when he was
   finished, with his master’s tools. “Do not leave any of them
   lying about, whatever you do,” said the foreman. The boy climbed
   up the pole and began to nip off the ends of the wire. It was
   a very cold winter night, and the dusk was gathering. He lost
   his hold and fell, upon the slates, slid down, and then over
   and over to the ground below. A clothes-rope, stretched across
   the “green” on to which he was just about to fall, caught him
   on the chest and broke his fall; but the shock was terrible,
   and he lay unconscious among some clothes upon the green. An
   old woman came out; seeing her rope broken and the clothes all
   soiled, thought the boy was drunk, shook him, scolded him, and
   went for a policeman. And the boy with the shaking came back to
   consciousness, rubbed his eyes, and got upon his feet. What do
   you think he did? He staggered, half-blind, away up the stairs.
   He climbed the ladder. He got up onto the roof of the house.
   He gathered up his tools, put them into his basket, took them
   down, and when he got to the ground again, fainted dead away.
   Just then the policeman came, saw there was something seriously
   wrong, and carried him away to the hospital, where he lay for
   some time. I am glad to say he got better. What was his first
   thought at that terrible moment? His duty. He was not thinking
   of himself; he was thinking about his master.--HENRY
   DRUMMOND.

    (838)

   See GREATNESS; HIGHER LAW.


                         DUTY BEFORE PLEASURE

   Dr. Johnson, himself a glutton in talk, complained to Patty
   Wesley of her brother: “I hate to meet John Wesley,” he said.
   “The dog enchants you with his conversation, and then breaks
   away to go and visit some old woman.”

   But for Wesley, the “old woman” represented duty. She was an
   immortal spirit, as precious in the sight of God as Dr. Johnson
   himself.--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (839)


                           DUTY, DEVOTION TO

   The late Sir Andrew Clarke was once attending a comparatively
   poor man who was so seriously ill as to need his constant and
   assiduous attention. He was fighting death step by step, and
   seeing his efforts meet with success. As he bent over and
   watched his patient, a telegram was handed him asking him to
   come over and consult some wealthy idler in the south of France,
   offering a special train to Dover, a packet chartered to Calais,
   another special train to Nice, and a fabulous fee. He looked at
   the patient, folded the telegram, and said to his assistant,
   “Reply that I am needed here and can not leave,” and turned to
   tend the poor man again.

   Much has been said in praise of this heroic self-abnegation.
   But, after all, the doctor simply did his duty.

    (840)

   See FAITHFULNESS.


                           DUTY, FAITHFUL TO

   Emperor William recommended the promotion of a private in his
   army for the strict observance of orders while acting as sentry
   at Swinemunde, Germany. The Emperor, accompanied by several
   officers, the entire party in civilian dress and wearing Panama
   hats, approached the entrance to the west battery, where the
   sentry prevented their further progress. His Majesty, much
   amused, again vainly tried to pass by. He said to the sentry:
   “You must let me pass. Don’t you know me? I am the Emperor.”
   The sentry then looked more closely at the Emperor, not quite
   reassured, but evidently recognized his Majesty’s features, as
   he presented arms and allowed him to pass.

The distinction of the sentry lay in the fact that, under every
circumstance, he was faithful to his duty.

    (841)


                             DUTY IN DEATH

   At Gettysburg a soldier in an ambulance heard the sound of
   battle. He arose to go. “Where are you going?” asked a comrade
   in a tone of remonstrance. “To the front,” said the wounded man.
   “What, in your condition!” “If I am to die,” he said, “I would
   rather die on the battle-field than in an ambulance.” (Text.)

    (842)


                         DUTY MORE THAN GLORY

   The citizen on great occasions knows and obeys the voice of his
   country as he knows and obeys an individual voice, whether it
   appeal to a base or ignoble, or to a generous or noble passion.
   “Sons of France, awake to glory,” told the French youth what
   was the dominant passion in the bosom of France, and it awoke a
   corresponding sentiment in his own. Under its spell he marched
   through Europe and overthrew her kingdoms and empires, and felt
   in Egypt that forty centuries were looking down on him from the
   pyramids. But, at last, one June morning in Trafalgar Bay there
   was another utterance, more quiet in its tone, but speaking also
   with a personal and individual voice: “England expects every
   man to do his duty.” At the sight of Nelson’s immortal signal,
   duty-loving England and glory-loving France met as they have met
   on many an historic battle-field before and since, and the lover
   of duty proved the stronger. The England that expected every man
   to do his duty was as real a being to the humblest sailor in
   Nelson’s fleet as the mother that bore him.--GEORGE FRISBIE
   HOAR.

    (843)


   =Duty Plus a Little More=--See OVERPLUS OF DUTY.


                            DUTY, SENSE OF

   Calif Omar, with his venerable teacher, Abou-Zeid, walked forth
   in the darkness of the night, far from his palace gate, where
   he saw a feeble fire burning. He sought it and found a poor
   woman trying to bring a caldron to the boiling-point while two
   wretched children clung to her, piteously moaning. “Peace unto
   thee, O woman! What dost thou here alone in the night and the
   cold?” said the calif. “I am trying to make this water boil
   that my children may drink, who perish of hunger and cold;
   but for the misery we have to bear, Allah will surely one day
   ask reckoning of Omar, the calif.” “But,” said the disguised
   calif, “dost thou think, O woman, that Omar can know of thy
   wretchedness?” She answered: “Wherefore, then, is Omar, the
   calif, if he be unaware of the misery of his people and of each
   one of his subjects?” The calif was silent. “Let us go hence,”
   he said to Abou-Zeid. He hastened to the storehouses of his
   kitchen, and drew forth a sack of flour and a jar of sheep’s
   fat. “O Abou-Zeid, help thou me to charge these on my back,”
   said the calif. “Not so,” replied the attendant; “suffer that I
   carry them on my back, O Commander of the Faithful.” Omar said
   calmly: “Wilt thou also, O Abou-Zeid, bear the weight of my sins
   on the day of resurrection?” And Abou-Zeid was obliged to lay
   the jar of fat and the sack of flour on the back of the calif,
   who hastened to the woman by the fire, and with his own hands
   did put the flour and the fat into the caldron over the fire,
   which fire he quickened with his breath, and the smoke whereof
   filled his beard. When the food was prepared, with his own
   breath did he cool it that the children might eat. Then he left
   the sack and the jar and went his way saying: “O Abou-Zeid, the
   light from the fire that I have beheld to-day has enlightened me
   also.”--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (844)

   See FAITHFULNESS.


   =Dying Like Ladies=--See PRIDE.


                            DYNASTIC NAMES

   Most royal families have a given name they employ as a sort
   of distinctive dynastic hallmark. George and Frederick are
   distinctively Hanoverian, as Edward is distinctively English.
   The late king selected Edward rather than Albert from motives
   at once filial and politic. He desired that his father should
   stand alone in his glory as Albert in English history, and
   Edward was associated with old and stately traditions of the
   Plantagenets and Tudors. Similarly the French Bourbons usually
   have a Louis or a Charles among their string of names, and the
   Bonapartes never forget Napoleon at the baptismal font. The
   most striking instance of reverence for a dynastic name is
   found in the princely family of Reuss, in Germany. There are
   two principalities of Reuss, respectively representing the
   elder and the younger lines. Every reigning prince must bear
   the name of Henry. Henry XXIV reigns over one principality, and
   Henry XIV over the other. All the heads of the houses for nine
   hundred years have been Henrys, and in a grand family council
   early in the eighteenth century it was decreed that the figures
   should not exceed one hundred, after which a new series should
   begin with Henry I. As both branches clung to Henry a working
   arrangement was patched up by which the younger line begins a
   new group-numbering with each century. The first Henry born
   in the twentieth century who shall mount the tiny throne must
   revert to Henry I, and similarly his descendant senior among
   the Henrys of the twenty-first century is foreordained to be I,
   too.--Boston _Transcript_.

    (845)




                                   E


   =Early Conditions in America=--See POVERTY, EARLY, OF UNITED STATES.


                           EARLY HABITS TELL

   The tree will not only lie as it falls, but it will also fall as
   it leans; that is, we shall go after what we are inclined to--is
   not that so?--which makes it all in all to us what the bent of
   our mind is.

   Twenty years ago there were two boys in my Sabbath-school class,
   bright, lively fellows, who interested me very much; only one
   of them made me sometimes feel anxious. I often found him out
   evenings in company with young rowdies. When I asked him how
   it happened, he used to say he was only out on an errand; the
   boys spoke to him, and he could not help speaking, he was sure.
   Perhaps that was so, still it made me uneasy. I once said to
   his mother: “Is not Willie out of nights too much?” “Willie out
   nights! Oh, no; Willie does not go out nights.”

    (846)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The other boy, whose name was Arthur, I never met among the
   rowdies. His evenings, I am sure, were spent at home. I always
   found him studying his lessons, or reading with his sisters, or
   amusing himself at home.

   That was twenty years ago. Both boys had begun to show which way
   they were leaning, and how their tastes inclined them. Twenty
   years will show it plainer.

   The other day I heard of Willie. Somebody met him in Chicago.

   “What is he?” I asked.

   “A good-for-nothing, certainly, if not worse,” was the answer;
   “a shabby, idle, drinking fellow, whom nobody wants to employ.”

   “Oh, I’m sorry to hear it--sorry, but not surprized. I wonder
   where Arthur is!”

   “Arthur! Why, didn’t you know, he has just been taken into
   partnership with that old firm with which he served his time?
   They could not spare him, so they had to take him in.”

   “Good!” I said. “It is just what I should have expected. He
   learned right.”--_Young Folks._

    (847)


                             EARLY PROMISE

   Two of the most celebrated historic rivers are the Abana and
   Pharpar. These streams begin their course under the most
   promising auspices. Their source is in Lebanon. The Abana, now
   called the Barada, is the pride and joy of the plain below.
   It forces its way from the declivity where it has its cradle
   through a rocky barrier and spreads out fan-like in seven
   streams over the plain. “Everything lives whither the river
   cometh.” A meadow, in which the whole Oriental world exults,
   holds in its lap Damascus, the most beautiful garden city in
   the world. Its many minarets and domes tower up above the
   countless bowers in the courts of the old houses. Abana still
   as ever sustains this fruitfulness and splendor. But only a few
   miles from its source its waters are exhausted, for the desert
   swallows it, and the Pharpar also. Both die, forming great
   swamps and evaporating.

So it is with many human beings whose lives are for a few years
efficient and full of promise and even performance, only very soon to
flag and fade and to fall into utter desuetude. (Text.)

    (848)

   See GREAT MEN’S BEGINNINGS.


                            EARLY RELIGION

   The Bible was once compared to a great tree, with its books as
   branches, its chapters as twigs, and the verses as leaves. A
   minister, addressing a Sunday-school gathering, announced his
   text as “on the 39th branch, the 3d twig, and the 17th leaf.” He
   said to his great audience, “Try to find my text.” A little lad
   who was in the pulpit, owing to the crowded state of the church,
   answered “Malachi, third chapter, and seventeenth verse.” The
   minister said, “Right, my boy; take my place and read it out.”
   It so happened the boy’s brother had died recently, and the
   sight of the little curly-headed lad, only eleven years old,
   with his little black gloves reading in silvery tones, “And they
   shall be mine, saith the Lord of hosts, in that day when I make
   up my jewels,” brought tears to many eyes. The minister laid his
   hand on the boy and said, “Well done; I hope one day you will
   be a minister.” The lad was Henry Drummond, afterward the loved
   teacher of thousands in America and Great Britain. (Text.)

    (849)

   See RELIGION, EARLY.


                              EARNESTNESS

Professor Ticknor, speaking in one of his letters of the intense
excitement with which he listened to Webster’s Plymouth address, says:

   Three or four times I thought my temples would burst with the
   gush of blood; for, after all, you must know that I am aware
   it is no connected and compacted whole, but a collection of
   wonderful fragments of burning eloquence, to which his manner
   gave tenfold force. When I came out, I was almost afraid to come
   near him. It seemed to me that he was like the mount that might
   not be touched, and that burned with fire.

The lips of the prophet of old were touched by the live coal. No great
thing is ever done without earnestness. (Text.)

    (850)

       *       *       *       *       *

   When Patrick Henry concluded his well-known speech in March,
   1775, in behalf of American independence, “no murmur of applause
   followed,” says his biographer. “The effect was too deep.” After
   the trance of a moment, several members of the assembly started
   from their seats. The cry, “To arms!” seemed to quiver on every
   lip, and glance from every eye. What was the secret of his
   power? The spirit of freedom so completely filled him that it
   overflowed into all other lives with which he came in contact.

   Every Christian is given a message that makes for eternal
   freedom. With what earnestness ought we to advocate this much
   greater cause. (Text.)

    (851)


                             EARTH, CRY OF

   M. Guyau, in his “Sketch of Morality,” relates a dream that
   he had. He felt himself soaring in heaven, far above the
   earth, and heard a weary sound ascending as of torrents amid
   mountain silence and solitude. He could distinguish human
   voices--sobs mingled with thanksgiving, and groans interrupted
   by benedictions; all melting into one heartrending symphony.
   The sky seemed darkened. To one with him he asked, “Do you
   hear that?” The angel answered, “These are the prayers of men,
   ascending from the earth to God.” Beginning to cry like a child,
   the dreamer exclaimed, “What tears I should shed were I that
   God!” Guyau adds: “I loosened the hand of the angel, and let
   myself fall down again to the earth, thinking there remained
   in me too much humanity to make it possible for me to live in
   heaven.”

It is that earth-cry that brings God down to help the needy.

    (852)


                           EARTH INCREASING

   Accumulations of surface-matter are astonishingly rapid.
   Professor Newton estimates that 400,000,000 meteors fall to the
   earth annually. These add enormous quantities of matter to the
   earth, but do not, of course, account for all surface growth and
   changes. Modern London is built on the site of Roman London,
   but the ancient city is seventeen feet lower than the modern.
   The Jerusalem streets that Jesus walked through are twenty feet
   lower down than the streets of Jerusalem of to-day. One of the
   most interesting resorts in that city, in the time of Christ,
   was the pool of Bethsaida. Recently work being done by the
   Algerian monks has laid bare a large tank cut in the solid rock
   thirty feet deep.--_Public Opinion._

    (853)


                    EARTH SOIL FOR HEAVENLY FLOWERS

   The poor women in the tenements of the Whitechapel road in
   London had a contest, and the flowers that took the prizes were
   grown in pots that hung out in the alleys of the worst section
   in London; all the roses and the jonquils being victorious over
   soot and grime. And heaven is an exhibition where souls will
   receive recognition and reward for their victories, the flowers
   of faith and prayer and hope that bloom resplendent midst
   unfriendly conditions. For time’s sweetest flowers are rooted in
   earth, even while they borrow their bloom from heaven.--N.
   D. HILLIS.

    (854)


                          EARTHEN VESSEL, THE

The author of this poem is unidentified:

    The Master stood in His garden
      Among the lilies fair,
    Which His own right hand had planted
      And trained with tenderest care.

    He looked at their snowy blossoms,
      And marked with observant eye
    That His flowers were sadly drooping,
      For their leaves were parched and dry.

    “My lilies need to be watered,”
      The heavenly Master said.
    “Wherein shall I draw it for them,
      And raise each drooping head?”

    Close to His feet on the pathway,
      Empty and frail and small,
    An earthen vessel was lying,
      Which seemed of no use at all.

    But the Master saw and raised it
      From the dust in which it lay,
    And smiled as He gently whispered,
      “This shall do my work to-day.

    “It is but an earthen vessel,
      But it lay so close to Me.
    It is small, but it is empty,
      Which is all it needs to be.”

    So to the fountain He took it,
      And filled it to the brim,
    How glad was the earthen vessel
      To be of some use to Him!

    He poured forth the living water
      Over the lilies fair,
    Until the vessel was empty,
      And again He filled it there.

    He watered the drooping lilies
      Until they revived again,
    And the Master saw with pleasure
      That His labor had not been vain.

    His own hand had drawn the water
      That refreshed the thirsty flowers,
    But He used the earthen vessel
      To carry the living showers.

    And to itself it whispered
      As He laid it aside once more,
    “Still will I lie in His pathway
      Just where I did before.

    “Close would I keep to the Master,
      Empty would I remain,
    And perhaps some day He may use me
      To water His flowers again.”

    (855)


   =Earthly Treasures=--See TREASURES LAID UP.


                   EARTHQUAKES, SUPERSTITIONS ABOUT

   Some Chinese attribute the latest earthquake shocks to the
   water-dragon of Canton, whose anger has been raised by the
   reclamation works. Coolies are dumping daily boatloads of sand
   and stone on the poor dragon’s back, and the beast naturally
   feels hurt.

   It appears, however, that the real causes of the earthquakes
   were the Macao crabs! Here is the story:

   Close by the hot springs in the neighborhood of Macao stands a
   small village wherein lives an old woman who has the misfortune
   to be the mother of an unworthy young man whose sole occupation
   is fishing. A few days previous to the first earthquake shock
   experienced in Macao the young man returned home with a couple
   of crabs and a few small fish.

   Nothing extraordinary was noticed at first, but when the crabs
   had been boiled, one of them presented a peculiar appearance, as
   on the red background of its shell stood in bold relief a design
   in white which resembled a Chinese character.

   Neighbors were called, and the wise man of the village soon
   explained that it was the king of the crabs that had found its
   way into the old woman’s kettle.

   Thereupon the village prophet predicted that some great calamity
   would visit the unfortunate village.

   Meanwhile the crabs of Macao and the neighborhood, having
   learned the fate of their king, assembled in great numbers,
   filling up every available hole, and started to shake the earth.
   Thus was their displeasure at the death of the king crab clearly
   shown.

    (856)


   =East, The, Amazed at Western Achievements=--See INCREDULITY.


                                EASTER

    The Lord is risen indeed,
    He is here for your love, for your need--
    Not in the grave, nor the sky,
    But here where men live and die;
    And true the word that was said:
    “Why seek ye the living among the dead?”

    Wherever are tears and sighs,
    Wherever are children’s eyes,
    Where man calls man his brother,
    And loves as himself another,
    Christ lives! The angels said:
    “Why seek ye the living among the dead?”

    --RICHARD WATSON GILDER.

    (857)

       *       *       *       *       *

    That Jesus lived, that Jesus died,
      The ancient stories tell;
    With words of wisdom, love, and truth,
      That he could speak so well;
    And all so great his work for man,
      I hail him, brave and free,
    The highest of heroic souls
      Who lived and died for me.

    That Jesus rose, that Jesus reigns,
      The hearts that love him know;
    They feel Him guide and strengthen them,
      As on through life they go.
    Rejoicing in His leadership,
      The heavenward way I see,
    And shall not stray if I can say,
      He rose and reigns in me.

    --A. IRVINE INNES, _The Christian Register_.

    (858)


   =Eastern Customs=--See EXPECTORATING; GESTURES AND USES OF THE HANDS
     IN THE EAST; TABOOED TOPICS IN THE EAST.


   =Eating, a Guide in=--See AFFLUENCE, THE PRINCIPLE OF.


                         EATING AND CHARACTER

   Gluttony tends to cynicism. Coarseness and extravagance of
   speech and manners go hand in hand with dietetic excesses, as,
   for cognate reasons, the repulsiveness of voracious animals is
   generally aggravated by a want of cleanliness. Among the natives
   of the arctic regions, where climatic causes make gluttony a
   pandemic vice, personal cleanliness is an almost unknown virtue,
   and Kane’s anecdotes of polar household habits depict a degree
   of squalor that would appal a gorilla.

   Habitual abstemiousness, on the other hand, is the concomitant
   of modesty, thrift, self-control, and evenness of temper,
   and is compatible with heroic perseverance, tho hardly with
   great energy of vital vigor. The dietetic self-denials of
   Luigi Cornaro, a Venetian nobleman of the sixteenth century,
   enabled him to outlive the third generation of his epicurean
   relatives. During the latter decades of his long life he boasts
   of having enjoyed a peace of mind unattainable by other means.
   Within the bounds of reason, occasional fasts are by no means
   incompatible with intellectual vigor, tho they are chiefly apt
   to stimulate the activity of abstruse speculations. There are
   intellectual voluptuaries whose enjoyment of mental triumphs in
   controversy or cogitation seem, for the time being, actually
   to deaden their craving for material food. Isaac Newton, on
   the track of a cosmic secret, would send back plate after
   plate of untasted meals. Percy Shelley, in the words of his
   sprightly biographer, indignantly refused to alloy the nectar
   of poetic inspiration with a “boarding-house soup,” and in his
   creative moods rarely answered a dinner call without a sigh
   of regret. Benedict Spinoza, amid the parchment piles of his
   bachelor den, would fast for days in the ecstacy of his “_Gott
   trunken_”--“God-intoxicated”--meditations. Intermittent
   denutrition undoubtedly tends to clear off the cobwebs of the
   brain. (Text.)--FELIX OSWALD, _Open Court_.

    (859)


                             ECCENTRICITY

The _Youth’s Companion_ tells this incident about the peculiar
moods of Turner, the artist, in the matter of selling his pictures:

   At times nothing could induce him to part with one of them, and
   at other times he would receive a customer with the greatest
   affability of voice and manner, and readily settle upon the sum
   to be paid for one of his treasures.

   On one occasion, when he was offered one thousand pounds apiece
   for some old sketchbooks, he turned them over leaf by leaf
   before the eyes of the would-be purchaser, saying, “Well, would
   you really like to have them?”

   Then, just as the man proceeded to take possession of the books,
   Turner, with a tantalizing “I dare say you would!” suddenly
   thrust them into a drawer and turned the key in the lock,
   leaving the customer dumb with indignation.

   On another occasion a rich manufacturer of Birmingham managed to
   secure an entrance into the artist’s house, after considerable
   parley with the disagreeable janitress whom Turner employed. He
   hurried up-stairs to the gallery. In a moment Turner dashed out
   upon him with anything but a hospitable air. The visitor bowed
   politely and introduced himself, saying he had come to buy some
   pictures.

   “Don’t want to sell,” said the artist gruffly.

   “Have you ever seen our Birmingham pictures, Mr. Turner?”
   inquired the visitor blandly.

   “Never heard of ’em,” returned the artist.

   The manufacturer now took an attractive package of crisp
   Birmingham bank-notes from his wallet.

   “Mere paper,” said Turner contemptuously.

   “To be bartered for mere canvas,” retorted the visitor calmly,
   waving his hand in the direction of some paintings.

   This ready wit and tone of cool depreciation had the effect
   of putting the erratic artist in a good humor at once. He
   changed his manner immediately, and not long after his visitor
   departed, having bought several fine paintings, and leaving the
   comfortable sum of five thousand pounds behind him.

    (860)

   See ODD BEHAVIOR.


                                ECHOES

   The explanations provided by the method of fairy tales are
   based upon the evidence of things that can not be perceived and
   upon assumptions that can not be tested. Take, for instance,
   the explanation of an echo; to the primitive mind, hearing the
   repetition of its shout, and conscious of only speaking once,
   is it not inevitable one should suppose that the shout came
   from another person? A futile search in the wood or under the
   cliff would lead to the thought that the person was hiding,
   and the more naturally, as on coming to the cliff whence the
   shout seemed to come one’s call would receive no answer. As at
   other times such mocking answers would always come from the
   same place, what more natural than to think that some person
   or spirit dwelt there? Hence such a story as Lander tells of
   his voyage down the Niger: “As they came to a creek the captain
   shouted, and where an echo was returned half a glass of rum and
   a piece of yam and fish were thrown into the water. On asking
   the reason why he was throwing away the provisions thus, he
   was answered: ‘Did you not hear the fetish?’ And so, in South
   Pacific myth, echo is the first and parent fairy to whom divine
   honors are paid as the giver of food, and as she ‘who speaks to
   the worshipers out of the rocks.’”--WILLIAM SCHOOLING,
   _Westminster Review_.

    (861)


   =Economic Injustice=--See INJUSTICE.


                           ECONOMIC MOTIVES

   We know that an extremely severe medical examination is imposed
   upon immigrants to the United States, and that entrance into
   this country is pitilessly denied to those who seem even merely
   puny and sickly. The result of this examination is that the
   ocean transportation companies must return to their countries,
   at their own cost, rejected immigrants. To avoid this expense,
   the companies of the various countries have decided to take all
   the precautions necessary for protecting the health of their
   passengers. Thus, at Hamburg a company has had great halls built
   to shelter emigrants during their stay in the port before their
   embarkation; and, the results having been favorably recognized,
   they are going to build booths, capable of containing each
   120 beds, arranged in accordance with the rules of up-to-date
   hygiene, each group of four booths to be provided with a special
   booth fitted up as a laundry, with vapor-baths, etc. We know,
   on the other hand, that the establishment of sanatoriums for
   consumptives had its origin in Germany in similar anxieties on
   the part of the insurance companies. Thus it is that the care
   of the pocketbook is still the surest motive power of social
   progress. (Text.)

    (862)


                                ECONOMY

We are enjoined to “lay aside every weight” in our Christian career.
One way to do this is to study the art of reducing our necessities to
the lowest terms, like this umbrella:

   A twenty-six-inch umbrella that will fold up and go in an inside
   pocket without crowding has been invented and constructed by a
   Minneapolis man, we are told in _The American Inventor_.
   Says this paper: “This seems almost incredible until the secret
   is told. The handle and all the ribs consist of fine and very
   strong steel tubes, in sections, which telescope one inside the
   other. The covering is of very fine silk, which takes up but
   little room. The wooden handle of the umbrella is hollow and
   receives all the rest of the telescoping umbrella-rod when shut
   up. A small and light case is provided to contain the whole,
   which, as stated, goes easily into the pocket. If such a device
   can be made and sold for a reasonable price there is little to
   prevent the owner from making a fortune; there are few men who
   would not welcome an umbrella which could be always carried
   without inconvenience, and which could be put out of the way of
   the borrower-who-never-returns, when entering a public place,
   such as a restaurant.” (Text.)

    (863)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In the packing business nothing is lost but “the squeal of the
   pig.” Every part of an animal is now valuable. Much of the
   profit of a packing-house now comes from byproducts, like hair,
   entrails and the like, that once were thrown away.

    (864)

       *       *       *       *       *

   You do not see to-day as many of the old peach or pea or salmon
   or tomato cans emptied of their contents and thrown about in the
   vacant lot or in the rubbish heap of the private family or the
   general garbagepile of the community. It was a real nuisance to
   have so many of these useless “cast-offs” accumulating under eye
   and foot. And with the increased use of canned goods this was
   becoming more and more so. Loads of these refuse cans are now
   gathered every year and are made into shining sheets which are
   used as a covering and decoration of traveling trunks. Enough
   tin refuse is taken from the ash-heaps to keep several mills
   employed in turning this waste into products for the markets.
   Even the solder which is saved from these cast-away cans brings
   twelve cents per pound, and yields an income that pays well for
   the pains of gathering this rubbish. Window-sash weights are
   made out of the tops and bottoms of these old cans, while the
   body of the can is cleaned and rolled anew, and made serviceable
   for trunk covering.--G. P. PERRY, “Wealth from Waste.”

    (865)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Have you ever, in hours of illness or of great preoccupation,
   performed some piece of work; undertaken, for example, some
   long-drawn piece of needlework, and woven your thoughts into the
   leaves and flowers? Through force of association, your inner
   experience and your work were henceforth completely identified,
   and after many years you could still say to yourself: This
   flower recalls the day when I was expecting news of my sick
   and absent son. I wavered between fear and hope and my hand
   trembled. Something of his fever has remained in this frail
   stem.... Here is a swallow that I embroidered after I had
   received happy tidings that reassured me and announced his near
   return. Never shall I be able to look at it without thinking of
   all the joy of which a mother’s heart is capable!

   The labor involved in economy is like these patient toils. The
   little pennies also have their story. This story is made up of
   watchfulness, of cares, of tenderness, of sublime sacrifice.
   Never will the large sums of nameless money attain to the power
   of signification possest by these little pennies amassed one by
   one, put carefully away, to which one has said: Little penny,
   I keep you to-day in order that you may keep me to-morrow; I
   give you a post of honor; the day when misery approaches my
   sill and threatens to cross it, you will cry out: you may not
   pass!--CHARLES WAGNER, “The Gospel of Life.”

    (866)

   See WASTE, THE PROBLEM OF.


   =Economy by Inventions=--See LABOR-SAVING INVENTIONS.


                            ECONOMY, DIVINE

   The autographs of musicians who in life could not write a check
   for a crust of bread have in death been sold for fabulous sums.
   Not long ago at a sale in Berlin two of Beethoven’s letters
   sold for $187 and $200 each. A letter of Chopin brought $250,
   a visiting-card of Haydn $20 and a letter $427, two letters of
   Schubert $777, four letters of Wagner $322, a scrap of writing
   of Mozart sold for $276, while a Gluck manuscript changed hands
   at $1,000. Some of these men in life hardly received enough for
   their services to keep their musical souls connected with their
   emaciated bodies; but they wasted themselves in pouring out
   their immortal melodies, and this generation is putting down its
   gold for mere scraps of paper that had felt the touch of their
   dead hands! Of course, their service and music are not lost; but
   look! God does not even allow the screeds of paper, which were
   once crumpled by their perished fingers, to be lost, either!
   While their music is filling the world with its sweetness God is
   even picking up the tattered, torn, broken fragments blown by
   cruel winds up and down the desert of their lives, that nothing
   be lost!--F. F. SHANNON.

    (867)


                   ECONOMY, ENGLISH VERSUS AMERICAN

   When Thomas Hughes, author of “Tom Brown at Oxford,” who had
   experience in American concerns in his endeavor to plant an
   English colony in Tennessee, was in Boston a few years ago,
   he was asked, according to the Boston _Post_, why it was
   that cooperative distribution which had proved so successful
   in England, had never succeeded in America. “Simply,” he said,
   “because you Americans do not know what economy is in the sense
   in which people practise it in England. Many a workingman at
   home will walk two miles to the cooperative store with his
   basket on his arm, and do it in his bare feet at that, to save a
   shilling on his weekly purchase. No American mechanic would do
   that.”

    (868)


   =Economy in Metal=--See MAGNETISM.


                            ECONOMY IN WORK

The editor of the Louisville _Christian Observer_ is the author of
the following:

   Coming down to the office one frosty morning we saw a workman
   kneeling on the pavement trying to hammer straight a bent
   rusty nail. The pavement was slippery, the nail was obdurate,
   the man’s gloved hands were clumsy, the only tool he had was
   a stone. Consequently, he had lost much time and quite all of
   his temper and was using language that is never heard in polite
   society. Economy is a good thing, but now and again is it not
   better to leave the bent nail to itself, at least until a moment
   of leisure comes, and take a straight, new nail from the box?
   In our church work are there not old, bent, rusty methods that
   should be abandoned? Always is it not wisdom to seek formation
   of character rather than reformation--to endeavor to keep the
   nail straight instead of pounding it so later? And in conducting
   the financial affairs of our churches is there not often an
   economy that really is wastefulness? A spiritual new nail is a
   good thing to be put into the hand of the master of assemblies
   that he may drive it into a sure place. (Text.)

    (869)


                           ECONOMY OF ENERGY

   In a shoe factory I was once shown an attachment to the
   sewing and other machines which caused the machine to stop
   whenever its work was done. When one button-hole was made the
   mechanism paused until it was given another task to do, so
   that no power was wasted, and no useless wear permitted. And
   the superintendent said: “That little iron ‘trick’ cost us two
   hundred dollars, but it saves us thousands of dollars every year
   in wear and tear of machinery and in attendance. It enables
   one operator to take care of two, three, and sometimes more
   machines.” Here, at least, is a hint that is intelligible and
   available to us all. How much longer would our youth stay by us
   if we had this life-saving attachment affixt; if we could only
   stop when a given task is done; if we did but apply ourselves
   but once to the one thing. (Text.)--VYRNWY MORGAN, “The
   Cambro-American Pulpit.”

    (870)

       *       *       *       *       *

   We--at least persons who have passed middle age--have only a
   certain amount of reserve force, and all that we draw upon in
   hurries is abstracted from that which should be distributed
   through the remainder of life. The secret of longevity is
   probably skill in so economizing the reserve of vital energy
   as to make it last out an unusual period. Persons who begin
   unusual exercises in youth may adapt their constitutions to the
   habit, and may thereby hold on to their full term of life; but
   this can not be done safely if one waits till mature age before
   beginning.--_Public Opinion._

    (871)


   =Economy of Healthful Foods=--See HEALTH, ECONOMICS OF.


                     ECONOMY OF NATURAL RESOURCES

   It is hardly conceivable that the economic waste represented
   by the neglect of the marine forests and gardens will be
   much longer continued. The only vegetation that exists upon
   two-thirds of the superficial area of the earth is seaweed.
   This vegetation ought to contribute to the support of the
   population of the land surface of the globe to such an extent
   that the question of food supply--the nightmare of scientific
   inquirers into the probable future of civilization and of the
   human race--need worry no one. (Text.)--_The Technical World
   Magazine._

    (872)


                               EDUCATION

   A scientific man recently said, “You can not manufacture
   diamonds.” To a certain extent this has been disputed, for
   another famous scientist claims that he has produced genuine
   diamonds, tho too minute to be of commercial value. In the
   pastoral epistles of Paul minute descriptions are given by
   the apostles concerning the true furnishing of the minister of
   Christ.

   The members of a congregation said of their new minister that
   they had got hold of “a gem of a pastor.” No college had made
   him a gem, but it was equally true that the excellent curriculum
   through which he had passed in a theological institution had
   polished him. He was not mere ministerial paste, but being a
   rough diamond when he went in, those who trained him sent him
   out cut and polished.

    (873)

       *       *       *       *       *

   I discovered on a leafless sapling near my window two birds, an
   adult phœbe and a young one apparently lately out of the nest.
   The elder kept up a running talk, occasionally darting out after
   a passing insect, which--I was surprized and amused to see--she
   carried to the little tree, and, after the youngster had seen
   it and opened its mouth to receive it, she swallowed herself!
   upon which the youth uttered a wailing cry. Then would come
   another long talk, and at every pause a complaining note from
   the infant. Several times these performances were repeated. Then
   the elder flew away, when at once the little one began to look
   out for himself, actually flying out, and once or twice while
   I looked succeeding in securing his prey.--OLIVE THORNE
   MILLER, “The Bird Our Brother.”

    (874)

       *       *       *       *       *

   To what shall I liken education? I would liken education to a
   voyage: A great ship rides in dock near a flat shore covered
   with small, low houses, and troops of little people go on board.
   The ship swings away from the wharf and makes out for the open
   sea. Captain, mates, and most of the crew know the course and
   the haven; but the passengers never crossed before. It is a
   long, long, voyage through storm and calm, through cold and
   heat; a voyage of years; a voyage that tests faith. The years
   pass and the little people grow and grow. During the voyage most
   of the passengers go overboard into the open sea; but some make
   the voyage to arrive at a coast with mountains and valleys,
   cities and castles, a world of powers and of activities unseen
   by the dwellers upon the low coast on the other side of the sea
   of life.

   Such is education. And the question is how to keep the
   passengers on board until the ship makes harbor.--WILLIAM
   ESTABROOK CHANCELLOR, “Proceedings of the National
   Education Association,” 1909.

    (875)

       *       *       *       *       *

John Stuart Mill, in his autobiography, says concerning his education:

   The children of educated parents frequently grow up unenergetic
   because they lean on their parents, and the parents are
   energetic for them. The education which my father gave me was in
   itself much more fitted for training me to know than to do.

    (876)

   See PRODIGY, A; THINGS, NOT BOOKS.


                     EDUCATION ADAPTED TO CAPACITY

   Everybody has been trying to cut his garments by a measure
   which was good for somebody else at some other place and time.
   The strenuous pressure of life’s struggle for preservation has
   differentiated men into soldiers, merchants, advocates, poets,
   priests, laborers, and farmers, but it is not yet admitted
   generally that it would be well to study the child’s qualities
   and train him for his best future. Owners of cattle and horses
   can not and do not afford to do anything else; man alone is
   wasted in efforts to make every boy an attorney-at-law and every
   girl a piano-player. One boy in a thousand can become a good
   lawyer, and not much more than one in a thousand is needed. One
   girl in five hundred may learn to play a piano fairly well,
   and one in a thousand may have the genius which will give her
   piano-playing the touch of life. Health and joy in labor are
   the best education. Work is best done when it is the natural
   exercise of faculty. The boy learns if he does nothing but play
   until he is mature. It is not a good education, but sometimes it
   is better than a wrong education.--Kansas City _Times_.

    (877)


   =Education, All-round=--See COMPREHENSIVENESS IN EDUCATION.


   =Education, Complexity in=--See MASTERHAND, LACKING THE.


   =Education Due to Missionaries=--See MISSIONARY ACCOMPLISHMENTS.


                          EDUCATION BY TRAVEL

The St. Louis _Post-Dispatch_ noted the educational results of the
cruise of the American fleet around the world in 1908:

   “The most gigantic correspondence school in the history of
   education, with free courses in foreign travel, geography and
   natural history, is,” says the St. Louis _Post-Despatch_,
   “now in operation throughout the entire United States, and
   particularly in the West and Southwest. The instructors are the
   15,000 sailors on Uncle Sam’s peace cruise around the world
   and the students are their relatives and friends, totaling
   200,000 to a quarter of a million souls. The text-books are
   the shoals of entertaining and instructive letters from the
   fleet which are flooding the whole country with every mail,
   with throngs of picture post-cards as graphic illustrations.
   From Honolulu, Auckland, New Zealand and Sydney, Australia,
   tons of letters are now on their way to the loved ones at home,
   bearing vivid lessons in the civilization of the Pacific islands
   and the antipodes. All over the country forgotten text-books
   on geography are being resurrected from dusty chests, so that
   mothers, sisters and sweethearts may chart each day the course
   pursued by the fleet. Book-stores report a largely increased
   sale of maps, globes and charts, due to an awakened interest in
   the remote sections of the earth. To the hundred or so families
   in St. Louis which have relatives with the fleet have come
   voluminous and thrilling letters, making them more familiar with
   Trinidad than they are with Porto Rico, and better acquainted
   with Magdalena Bay than they are with Charleston harbor. Such
   letters as these, spreading information broadcast in the land,
   are proving a vast engine against provincialism, ignorance
   and narrowness, and affording a cosmopolitan education to
   multitudes.”

    (878)


                           EDUCATION, HIGHER

   A good illustration of the monetary value of higher education
   in chemistry and mining is seen when one compares Germany and
   England. Both countries have the same kind of iron ore and the
   same coal supply. England has the advantage of having her coal
   nearer the iron fields. In 1880 England mined and produced
   8,000,000 tons of pig-iron per year, while Germany’s product was
   only 3,000,000. Since that time Germany has supported handsomely
   her great technical universities and sent out each year into
   her industries a stream of highly-trained experts, with the
   result that in 1907, while England’s production had risen from
   8,000,000 to only 9,000,000 tons per year, Germany’s had risen
   from 3,000,000 to 13,000,000. It is more significant still that
   from 1900 to 1908 German iron brought on the average nearly
   $19 per ton, while English iron brought only $13 per ton, a
   difference of nearly 50 per cent in favor of the iron made by
   the better-educated German producer. This one result of these
   great German technical institutions would alone add $190,000,000
   per year to German wealth if the iron were sold as raw pig-iron.
   As a matter of fact, a large part of this iron is made up into
   all sorts of manufactured products, made possible by their high
   technical education, and these products are exported and sold at
   many times the price of the raw pig-iron--New York _Evening
   Post_.

    (879)


                        EDUCATION NOT VICARIOUS

   William has been to school for over a year, and his teacher
   says to him one day: “Now, William, I am afraid your father
   will think that I am not doing well by you; you must write
   a composition--you must send your father a good composition
   to show what you are doing.” Well, William never did write
   a composition, and he does not know how. “Oh, write about
   something that you do know about--write about your father’s
   farm,” and so, being goaded to his task, William says: “A cow
   is a useful animal. A cow has four legs and two horns. A cow
   gives good milk. I love good milk.--William Bradshaw.” The
   master looks over his shoulder and says: “Pooh! your father will
   think you are a cow. Here, give me that composition, I’ll fix
   it.” So he takes it home and fixes it. Here it reads: “When the
   sun casts off the dusky garments of the night, and appearing
   o’er the orient hills, sips the dew-drops pendant from every
   leaf, the milkmaid goes a-field, chanting her matin song,” and
   so on, and so on. Now, I say that, rhetorically, the master’s
   composition was unspeakably better than William’s; but as a part
   of William’s education, his poor, scrawly lines are unspeakably
   better than the one that has been “fixt” for him.--HENRY
   WARD BEECHER.

    (880)


   =Education of Indians=--See INDIANS, AMERICAN.


   =Education, Self=--See READING BY SCHEDULE.


                        EDUCATION TO BE PRIZED

   Wesley himself, however, had a scholar’s hate of ignorance, and
   he toiled with almost amusing diligence to educate his helpers.
   He insisted that they should be readers, and scourged them with
   a very sharp whip if he found them neglecting their books. Thus
   he writes to one:

   “Your talent in preaching does not increase. It is just the
   same as it was seven years ago. It is lively, but not deep.
   There is little variety; there is no compass of thought.
   Reading only can supply this, with daily meditation and daily
   prayer. You wrong yourself greatly by omitting this. You can
   never be a deep preacher without it, any more than a thorough
   Christian.”--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (881)


   =Educational Growth=--See NEED, MEETING CHILDREN’S.


                          EFFACEMENT OF SINS

We are reminded of the promise that God will “blot out” our
transgressions by the following incident:

   John Maynard was in an old-time country schoolhouse. Most of
   the year he had drifted carelessly along, but in midwinter some
   kind words from his teacher roused him to take a new start,
   and he became distinctly a different boy, and made up for the
   earlier faults. At the closing examination he passed well, to
   the great joy of his father and mother, who were present. But
   the copy-books used through the year were all laid on a table
   for the visitors to look at; and John remembered that his
   copy-book, fair enough in its latter pages, had been a dreary
   mass of blots and bad work before. He watched his mother looking
   over those books, and his heart was sick. But she seemed, to
   his surprize, quite pleased with what she saw, and called his
   father to look with her; and afterward John found that his kind
   teacher had thoughtfully torn out all those bad, blotted leaves,
   and made his copy-book begin where he started to do better.
   (Text.)--FRANKLIN NOBLE, “Sermons in Illustration.”

    (882)


   =Effects from Other’s Deeds=--See VICARIOUSNESS.


   =Effort, Progress by=--See WANT BRINGS PROGRESS.


   =Effort Renewed=--See EXTREMITY NOT FINAL.


                                EGOISM

It is Nietzsche’s philosophy that each man should care only for
himself. This philosophy is applied in the following incident. Many
still apply it in their social conduct:

   It was no very unusual sight in China, to see a thief running
   for all he was worth, pursued by two or three vociferating men
   or lads. But the crowd always made way for the thief, and never
   a foot nor a hand was put out to stop him, “He did not rob me;
   why should I stop him?” (Text.)

    (883)


                                EGOTISM

   Miss Gordon Cumming tells how she heard in Japan a bird which
   seemed to have for its sole note, “Me! Me! Me!” She and her
   party called it “the me-bird.”

There are numerous “me birds” that belong to the human family. They
might also be called “ay, ay birds.”

    (884)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In Delhi once stood a temple whose ceiling was set with
   diamonds, and beneath which stood the throne of the divine
   peacock. The jewels in this temple were worth $30,000,000. On
   the marble pedestal of the throne, in Arabic, were these words,
   “If ever there were paradise on earth, it is here, it is here,
   it is here.” But the facts are that this temple was built by
   poor slaves, many of whom died of starvation and cruelty while
   in the act of building it. This temple represents intensity
   without breadth. Treasures and education have been concentrated
   to produce an awful kind of egotism. Men and women have been
   known to be sublimely beautiful within themselves, but in
   relation to others ugly, hollow, and deformed, their narrowness
   grating rudely on the finer sensibilities. (Text.)--VYRNWY
   MORGAN, “The Cambro-American Pulpit.”

    (885)

   See SELF-MEASUREMENT.


   =Egyptian Builders=--See BUILDERS, ANCIENT.


                              ELECT, THE

   Two modern statements of the doctrine of “election,” neither of
   which would quite satisfy John Calvin or Jonathan Edwards, are
   given in _The Congregationalist_.

   One was Henry Ward Beecher’s epigrammatic and convincing phrase:
   “The elect are whosoever will; the non-elect are whosoever
   won’t.”

   Good as this is, there is another explanation that is a star of
   equal magnitude. It was made by a colored divine, who said:

   “Brethren, it is this way. The Lord, He is always voting for a
   man; and the devil, he is always voting against him. Then the
   man himself votes, and that breaks the tie.” (Text.)

    (886)


   =Electricity and Tree-cutting=--See IMPROVEMENT.


                        ELECTRICITY, WONDERS OF

In 1856 Dr. R. S. Storrs said:

   Not a century has passed since Franklin first drew the lightning
   from the skies; and yet already man prints with it, paints with
   it, writes with it, engraves with it, talks with it, cures with
   it, and is ever finding out new uses for its strength. The
   cunning Hermes has himself come to earth, to run on errands for
   men, and no more for the gods. His traveling-rod, enwreathed
   with serpents, is now a wire, transmitting thoughts. His golden
   sandals are sparks of lightning; and he forwards our commerce,
   as he never could the ancient.

    (887)


                      ELECTRIFICATION, SPIRITUAL

From the following illustration of electrical contact, Rev. William
Arthur draws the moral that if we would be spiritually electrified we
must draw nigh to God.

   When a lecturer on electricity wants to show an example of a
   human body surcharged with his fire, he places a person on a
   stool with glass legs. The glass serves to isolate him from
   the earth, because it will not conduct the fire--the electric
   fluid. Were it not for this, however much might be poured into
   his frame, it would be carried away by the earth; but, when thus
   isolated from it, he retains all that enters him. You see no
   fire, you hear no fire; but you are told that it is pouring into
   him. Presently, you are challenged to the proof, asked to come
   near, and hold your hand close to his person; when you do so, a
   spark of fire shoots out toward you.

    (888)


   =Elements and Structures=--See DESTRUCTION, GRADUAL.


                               ELEVATION

Many of life’s hidden mysteries would be clear to us, if we could see
them as God does--from above.

   Many times aeronauts, carried out to sea, have made this curious
   observation: the higher they are, the more pellucid the water
   seems, enabling them to see, more and more clearly, the bottom,
   with its rocks and seaweed. In crossing the English Channel,
   which is not very deep, especially near Calais, the bottom may
   be easily seen, and a submarine could be followed there in all
   its evolutions. (Text.)--ERNEST CONSTET, _Revue
   Scientifique_.

    (889)

       *       *       *       *       *

   I remember an old woodsman in the Adirondack forest who used to
   say that he wanted to go to the top of a certain mountain as
   often as his legs would carry him because it gave him such a
   feeling of “heaven-up-histedness.” That is an uncouth, humble,
   eloquent phrase to describe the function of a great literature.

   Unless above himself he can Erect himself, how mean a thing is
   man!

   I want the books that help me out of the vacancy and despair of
   a frivolous mind, out of the tangle and confusion of a society
   that is busied in bric-a-brac, out of the meanness of unfeeling
   mockery and the heaviness of incessant mirth, into a higher and
   serener region, where through the clear air of serious thoughts
   I can learn to look soberly and bravely upon the mingled misery
   and splendor of human existence, and then go down with a
   cheerful courage to play a man’s part in the life which Christ
   has forever ennobled by His divine presence. (Text.)--HENRY
   VAN DYKE, _The British Weekly_.

    (890)


                         ELEVATION AND VISION

   A man once brought a young eagle home for his boys to play with.
   They were delighted and took it out to the barnyard to see it
   fly. But the eaglet would rather walk about among the hens
   and pick up wheat. The boys tossed it up in the air, but all
   their efforts were only in vain, for it flapped its great wings
   awkwardly, as if not knowing what to do with them and dropt back
   to the earth. The boys told their father of their inability to
   make the bird fly. Taking the eaglet under his arm, he called
   the boys with him to the mountain. As they were ascending the
   summit the bird began to open its eyes wider and wider. When
   they reached the peak, the eaglet began to expand its wings, and
   as it caught a vision of the unfettered blue bathed in the light
   of the rising sun, it soared away out of sight.

   So it is in human life. It requires a vision of the heights to
   inspire a soul to its best flight. (Text.)

    (891)

   Climbing the stairs into the helmet of the Statue of Liberty
   gives one a splendid view of the harbor and lower section of New
   York. It is a toilsome, knee-straining business. But the vision
   is worth the effort.

   One must reach the high places if he would get a vision of the
   King in His beauty and an outlook over the kingdom that is to
   be.--C. J. GREENWOOD.

    (892)


                               ELOQUENCE

   The storm that whirls among the mountains, the stoop of the
   whirlwind that wrenches the tree from its bed in the soil, the
   utmost rage of oceanic commotions--they have not that dominant
   power upon them to start our spirits, and carry our sympathies
   to an equal agitation, which eloquence has when it utters the
   force of one aroused soul.--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (893)

   See AGE AND ORATORY; EARNESTNESS; LORD’S PRAYER INTERPRETED.


   =Eloquence of Deeds=--See DEEDS THAT TALK.


                             EMANCIPATION

Every artist who works upon his canvas or upon the stone, or rears up
stately fabrics, expressing something nobler to men, giving some form
to their ideals and aspirations--every such man also is working for the
largeness and so for the liberty of men. And every mother who sits by
the cradle, singing to her babe the song which the angels sing all the
way up to the very throne, she, too, is God’s priestess, and is working
for the largeness of men, and so for their liberty. Whoever teaches men
to be truthful, to be virtuous, to be enterprising; in short, whoever
teaches manhood, emancipates men.--HENRY WARD BEECHER.

    (894)


   =Embarrassment=--See FEAR OF MAN.


                      EMBELLISHMENT OF PREACHING

   The Telugus often embellish their sermons to an extent
   inconceivably funny. A smart young preacher, a graduate of
   Ramapatam Seminary, in telling of the resurrection of Lazarus,
   said that he arose from the dead when called, tied his clothing
   about him (the Hindu’s idea of dressing), put on a beautiful
   head-cloth, raised an umbrella, and came walking out of the
   tomb. The force of the climax would appeal to any one who lived
   in India. An umbrella is such a sign of distinction that people
   who own one often carry it open in the night even tho there has
   been no rain for six months.

    (895)


                                EMBLEMS

   An apple is the emblem of the fall; held in the hand of Jesus
   Christ it signifies redemption. A cluster of grapes is the
   emblem of “Christ’s blood shed for us.” It is also the emblem
   of abundance and prosperity. The vine is a symbol of Christ. It
   is also an emblem of abundance. Wheat is an emblem of Christ as
   the “Bread of Life”; also of abundance and rejoicing. The olive
   is the emblem of peace and concord. The palm is the symbol of
   martyrdom. The pomegranate is the emblem of the future life and
   of immortality.--_The Decorator and Furnisher._

    (896)

   See COLORS AS EMBLEMS.


                               EMERGENCY

   Men who had been with Mr. Hearst in San Francisco were reminded
   of the night he came into _The Examiner_ office and heard
   of a man that had been seen on a half-submerged rock in the bay,
   with the tide rising and certain to overwhelm him. In the office
   they were wondering how he got there.

   “What difference does it make how he got there?” Mr. Hearst
   cut in. “Get him off first and find out afterward. Charter
   tugs, call for volunteers, and save his life--that’s the main
   thing.” They went out with the tugs (it was a wild night),
   and rescued the man just before the seas rose over the rock.
   (Text.)--CHARLES R. RUSSELL, _Harper’s Weekly_.

    (897)


   =Emergency Devices=--See DECEPTION JUSTIFIED.


                        EMIGRATION, CONQUEST BY

The martial resources of China are not yet developed, but that astute
people have hit upon another plan to conquer and hold that which they
regard as their own. A current news item from that country says:

   China’s chief method of recovering Manchuria is to overrun it
   with emigrants from the congested mother country, and this plan
   has worked so well that already Japanese newspapers complain
   that the Japanese are losing both trade and ground there. Soon
   after the peace of Portsmouth the Chinese government contributed
   two million taels for emigration; free transportation began, at
   the beginning of the year, and in the spring months following
   as many as three thousand to four thousand coolies got off the
   train at Harbin daily. The Russians, who, before the war,
   considered themselves masters of the northern regions, are
   realizing that they are being crowded out altogether.

This is a suggestion of the peaceful but powerful forces that are at
work in changing the map of the world.

    (898)


                                EMOTION

   What made Paganini so exceptionally great was the portentous
   development, the strength and independence, of the emotional
   fountain within. The whole of life was to him nothing but so
   many successions of psychological heat and cold. Incidents
   immediately became clothed with a psychic atmosphere--perhaps
   the life of emotion was never so completely realized in itself,
   and for itself, as in the soul-isolation of Paganini. What
   the tempest had told him his violin would proclaim; what the
   summer night had whispered was stereotyped in his soul, and the
   midnight song of birds came forth from the Cremona depths at his
   bidding.--H. R. HAWEIS, “My Musical Memories.”

    (899)

   See FEELINGS A FOUNTAIN.


   =Employe, Devoted=--See SERVICE, INTERESTED.


                           EMPLOYER, A GOOD

   By his employees Mr. Geo. W. Childs was fairly idolized; yet he
   demanded of every man the full measure of his duty, but he paid
   the best of wages. His rule was that every man should receive
   more than enough for a living--receive a compensation enabling
   him to lay something by for a rainy day. He encouraged thrift
   and providence among all in his employ. He surrounded them with
   every comfort, introduced for their benefit every appliance
   conducive to health, and annually, at Christmas-time, every
   person in his employ was substantially remembered.--Washington
   _Craftsman_.

    (900)


                             ENCOURAGEMENT

   Thirty years ago, in a poor schoolhouse in a back district, a
   boy at the foot of the class unexpectedly spelled a word that
   had passed down the entire class.

   “Go up ahead,” said the master, “and see that you stay there.
   You can if you work hard.”

   The boy hung his head. But the next day he did not miss a word
   in spelling. The brighter scholars knew every word in the
   lesson, hoping there might be a chance to get ahead. But there
   was not a single one. Dave stayed at the head. He had been an
   indifferent speller before, but now he knew every word.

   “Dave, how do you get your lessons so well now?” said the master.

   “I learn every word in the lesson, and get my mother to hear me
   at night; then I go over them in the morning before I come to
   school. And I go over them at my seat before the class is called
   up.”

   “Good boy, Dave!” said the master. “That’s the way to have
   success. Always work that way and you’ll do.”

   Dave is to-day the manager of a big lumber company, and he
   attributes his start to the words:

   “Go up head, and see that you stay there. You can, if you work
   hard.” (Text.)--_Genesee Courier._

    (901)

       *       *       *       *       *

The old should not dampen the high aspirations of the young. This is
Cale Young Rice’s thought in the following verse:

    You who are old,
    And have fought the fight,
    And have won or lost or left the field,
    Weigh us not down
    With fears of the world, as we run!
    With the wisdom that is too right,
    The warning to which we can not yield--
    The shadow that follows the sun
    Follows forever--
    And with all that desire must leave undone,
    Tho as a god it endeavor,
    Weigh, weigh us not down!
    But gird our hope to believe
    That all that is done
    Is done by dream and daring--
    Bid us dream on!
    That earth was not born
    Or heaven built of bewaring--
    Yield us the dawn,
    You dreamt your hour--and dared, but we
    Would dream till all you despaired of be.
    Would dare, till the world,
    Won to a new wayfaring,
    Be thence forever easier upward drawn!
    (Text.)--_The American Magazine._

    (902)

       *       *       *       *       *

   When the Duke of Wellington was arranging his forces at the
   fateful battle of Waterloo his raw recruits outnumbered his
   veteran troops, and so to encourage them by the example of
   those skilled in war and tried in bravery, he put a veteran
   between every two of the recent recruits. Thus strengthened,
   they all withstood the fierce charges of the French cavalry and
   helped win the day for the allies. So when the Christian hosts
   go forth to battle it is well to have the tried and experienced
   Christians intermingled with those yet young in the spiritual
   life. It gives them courage and helps them to withstand
   temptations and trials by which they would otherwise be swept
   away.--S. PARKES CADMAN.

    (903)

       *       *       *       *       *

   An old minister, the Rev. Richard Knill, once placed his hands
   on the head of a little boy and lovingly predicted that he, too,
   would become a preacher. That boy was C. H. Spurgeon. A boy was
   standing on the steps leading to a platform on which a minister
   wished to ascend. He patted the lad’s head and hoped he would
   become a preacher of the gospel. That youth afterward went to
   the university and there became the means of the conversion
   of a young student. That student was J. Wilbur Chapman, the
   evangelist.

    (904)

   See IMPROVEMENT; MONEY, EARNING.


                           END OF THE WORLD

   At some future time the sun will pass from the gaseous, or
   semigaseous, into the liquid stage, and from that moment it
   will begin to lose temperature rapidly. There is, therefore, a
   definite end in sight, a time beyond which the sun will cease
   to shine and the world, as it now exists, will come to an
   end.--CHARLES LANE POOR, “The Solar System.”

    (905)


   =End, Unknown=--See HAPPINESS AS A GOD.


                               ENDEAVOR

    When the dust of the workshop is still,
      The dust of the workman at rest,
    May some generous heart find a will
      To seek and to treasure his best!

    From the splendor of hopes that deceived;
      From the wonders he meant to do;
    From the glories nearly achieved;
      From the dreams that nearly came true.

    From his struggle to rise above earth
      On the pinions that would not fly;
    From his sorrows; oh, seek for some worth
      To remember the workman by.

    If in vain; if time sweeps all away,
      And no laurel from that dust springs;
    ’Tis enough that a loyal heart say,
      “He tried to make beautiful things.”
    (Text.)--EDEN PHILLPOTTS, _The Pall Mall
    Magazine_ (London).

    (906)


                          ENDEAVOR, CONSTANT

   Parsifal emphasizes the fact that “heaven is not gained with
   a single bound.” After Parsifal had won the great victory and
   gained the Sacred Spear, still he had not grown enough to be
   worthy to rule in the council-chambers of Monsalvat. He had
   to grow to new heights. Thus, many years yet of struggle,
   temptation, and trial awaited him. Self-mastery and spiritual
   supremacy are attained, not by one victory, but by many. They
   come only as the rich fruition of a life of strenuous endeavor,
   a life of loyalty to duty and to love. (Text.)--B. O.
   FLOWER, _The Arena_.

    (907)


                               ENDURANCE

   Look at things as they are, and you will see that the clever
   unjust are in the place of runners, who run well from the
   starting-place to the goal, but not back again from the goal;
   they go off at a great pace, but in the end only look foolish,
   slinking away with their ears down on their shoulders, and
   without a crown; but the true runner comes to the finish and
   receives the prize and is crowned. And this is the way with the
   just; he who endures to the end of every action and occasion
   of his entire life has a good report and carries off the prize
   which men bestow. (Text.)--PLATO.

    (908)


                           ENDURANCE OF PAIN

The incident below, printed in the New York _Times_, illustrates
how pride and resolution will fortify a man to endure pain:

   “Whom do you s’pose I’ve got inside here? Old one-eyed Ben
   Tillman! And if I don’t make him squeal nobody can. I won’t do
   a thing to him--oh, my!” And the dentist-surgeon brandished his
   forceps gleefully and returned to the pleasure of torturing the
   senator.

   Next day the same young man came again. “Well, did you succeed
   in making Tillman yell?” he asked. The dentist shook his head
   sadly. “No,” he replied in a disappointed tone. “I couldn’t make
   him flinch. He didn’t make a sound, and, d’ye know, when he got
   out of the chair he turned to me with a smile and said: ‘Say,
   doctor, I didn’t know before that you ran a painless dental
   shop.’” (Text.)

    (909)


                             ENDURING ART

   You can go down into the narrow vault which Nero built as
   a retreat from the great heat, and you will find the walls
   painted all over with fanciful designs in arabesque, which
   have been buried beneath the earth fifteen hundred years; but
   when the peasants light it up with their torches, the colors
   flash out before you as fresh as they were in the days of St.
   Paul.--WENDELL PHILLIPS.

    (910)


                                ENEMIES

Mr. Vernon L. Kellogg, with a child friend, were watching an ant-dragon
as he caught an ant in a sandpit-trap.

   “But, see,” cried Mary, “the ant has stopt sliding. It is going
   to get out!”

   Ah, Mary, you are not making allowance for all the resources of
   this dreadful dragon of the pit. Not only is the pit a nearly
   perfect trap, and the eager jaws at the bottom more deadly than
   any array of spikes or spears at the bottom of an elephant pit,
   but there is another most effective thing about this fatal
   dragon’s trap, and that is this: it is not merely a passive
   trap, but an active one. Already it is in action. And Mary sees
   now how hopeless it is with the ant. For a shower of sand is
   being thrown up from the bottom of the pit against the ant and
   it is again sliding down. The dragon has a flat, broad head
   and powerful neck muscles, and has wit enough to shovel up and
   hurl masses of dry sand-grains against the victim on the loose
   slopes. And this starts the avalanche again, and so down slides
   the frantic ant.--VERNON L. KELLOGG, “Insect Stories.”

    (911)


   =Enemies Among Animals=--See SUBTLETY AMONG ANIMALS.


                           ENEMIES, AVOIDING

It would often be well for men to avoid enemies as did these sagacious
rooks:

   A curious incident in the recent history of the Gray’s Inn
   settlement of rooks is mentioned by a London correspondent
   in the Manchester _Guardian_. It appears that a couple
   of carrion crows settled in the gardens, and one day it was
   discovered that the rookery was deserted. The benchers, who are
   particularly proud of their rooks, gave orders for the carrion
   crows to be destroyed, and the gardener prepared pigeon’s eggs
   with good doses of arsenic. The crows swallowed them and seemed
   to grow fatter and healthier. At last strychnine was used, and
   the pair were poisoned. Then a curious thing happened. Not a
   rook had been seen for weeks at Gray’s Inn, but the next day
   they were all back as tho advised by telegram.

    (912)


                           ENEMIES CONVERTED

   Count Witte, Russian Prime Minister, summoned his secretary one
   day and gave him this order:

   “Make out a full list of the authors of the articles that are
   directly against me in the daily press.”

   The secretary went to work, and with the aid of his office force
   in a week prepared a list of about a thousand articles, with the
   writer’s names appended. The clippings were properly classified,
   put in an album, and dutifully handed to the Premier.

   “In how many instances,” he asked, “have I been commended?”

   “In three, your excellency.”

   “Very well; now select the most abusive and personal of the
   unfavorable articles, and let me know the names of the writers.”

   This list, too, was duly prepared and presented.

   “Shall I bring this to the attention of the public prosecutor?”
   queried the secretary.

   “For what purpose?”

   “Why, to institute proceedings under the statutes regulating the
   press.”

   “No, I do not wish it,” said the Premier. “I wish to select
   from these journalists my most aggressive critic and make him
   my advocate and spokesman. I shall offer him the editorship of
   my organ. Experience has taught me that the best champion and
   most faithful defender is the man who has been your bitterest
   assailant.” (Text.)

    (913)


   =Enemies of Character=--See SELF-CONFLICT.


   =Enemy of the World, An=--See MYSTERY, VALUE OF.


                                ENERGY

What unused energy still awaits utilization by man is indicated in the
following calculation:

   The tremendous amount of energy received from the sun may be
   illustrated in another way. Ordinary steam-engines, whether
   for railroad or factory use, are rated by their horse-power; a
   hundred-horse-power engine will drive a small steamer or operate
   a mill of some two hundred and fifty looms. Now, thirty calories
   of heat per minute, if completely utilized, would produce 2.8
   horse-power. Neglecting atmospheric absorption, therefore, each
   square meter of the earth’s surface receives from the sun, when
   directly overhead, sufficient energy to run a 2.8 horse-power
   engine; or one horse-power is received for every four square
   feet of surface. The absorption of the air cuts this down about
   forty per cent, so that on a clear day at sea-level, with
   the sun directly overhead, sufficient energy to produce one
   horse-power is received on each six and a half square feet of
   surface.--CHARLES LANE POOR, “The Solar System.”

    (914)

   See MOMENTUM.


   =Energy, Economy of=--See ECONOMY OF ENERGY.


                          ENERGY, INDOMITABLE

   Seldom has there been seen a more inspiring example of
   indomitable energy triumphing over fate than that which the
   Engraver Florian is now giving to the world, says the New York
   _World_.

   Six years ago, while at work upon the designs for the new French
   bank-notes, he was suddenly stricken by paralysis. His right
   side became as if dead; he was bereft of speech; the hand whose
   skill had made him famous was useless forever. Did he complain?
   Did he resign himself to the inevitable? Did he sit down in
   despair and allow his young wife and daughters to support him?
   Not for a moment. He let the women work, it is true, but only
   while he learned to engrave with the left hand.

   Hour after hour, day after day, month after month he passed,
   struggling with that awkward, untrained left hand, drawing at
   first crudely like a little child, then with ever-increasing
   precision. Gradually he educated the refractory member to
   obey his will. Drawing, water-color painting, designing for
   typographers succeeded one another, until to-day he has again
   attained absolute mastery over the engraver’s tools. Arsene
   Alexandre, the famous art critic, saw him at work recently, his
   wooden block screwed to a table, his left hand plying the tools
   with all the deftness his now dead right hand formerly possest,
   his speechless lips smiling and his face radiant with happiness.

    (915)


                          ENGLISH, ERRORS IN

The following specimens of false syntax are given by the _Printers’
Register_:

   A man who was suddenly taken sick “hastened home while every
   means for his recovery was resorted to. In spite of all his
   efforts he died in the triumphs of the Christian religion.” “A
   man was killed by a railroad car running into Boston supposed to
   be deaf.” A man writes, “We have decided to erect a schoolhouse
   large enough to accommodate five hundred scholars five stories
   high.” On a certain railway the following luminous direction
   was printed: “Hereafter when trains in an opposite direction
   are approaching each other on separate lines, conductors and
   engineers will be requested to bring their respective trains
   to a dead halt before the point of meeting, and be careful not
   to proceed till each train has passed the other.” A steamboat
   captain, advertising an excursion, says: “Tickets, twenty-five
   cents; children half-price to be had at the office.” An Iowa
   editor says: “We have received a basket of fine grapes from our
   friend W., for which he will please accept our compliments,
   some of which are nearly two inches in diameter.”--_Printers’
   Register._

    (916)


   =English Passage, Superb=--See SOLACE OF THE SEA.


                        ENGROSSMENT IN BUSINESS

The character is shaped by that which engrosses the attention most.
Rev. W. F. Crafts, Ph.D., says:

   A profane sea-captain came to a mission station on the Pacific,
   and the missionary talked with him upon religious subjects. The
   captain said, “I came away from Nantucket after whales; I have
   sailed round Cape Horn for whales; I am now up in the Northern
   Pacific Ocean after whales. I think of nothing but whales. I
   fear your labor would be entirely lost upon me, and I ought to
   be very frank with you. I care for nothing by day but whales,
   and I dream of them at night. If you should open my heart I
   think you would find the shape of a sperm-whale there.”

    (917)


   =Enlarging Objects=--See SCIENCE, IMPROVEMENTS BY.


                             ENLIGHTENMENT

The difference between the savage and the enlightened man is often due
to Christian civilization.

   John Williams tells how the Raratongans were excited and
   overawed when, for the first time, they saw him send a written
   message to his wife. He requested a chief, who was helping, to
   take the chip to Mrs. Williams; but, thinking the missionary
   to be playing a joke on him, he asked, “What must I say?”
   “Nothing,” said Mr. Williams; “the chip will say all that I
   wish.” “But can a chip talk? Has it a mouth?” He got what
   he went for, and, still more perplexed, could only exclaim:
   “See the wisdom of these English! They can even make chips
   talk!”--PIERSON, “The Miracles of Missions.”

    (918)


                              ENTHUSIASM

   The most terrific heat known to science is a torch operated
   by oxygen and acetylene, radiating a heat of 6,300 degrees,
   by means of which it is possible to weld aluminum, heretofore
   regarded as an impossibility. The torch makes a flame that will
   cut through two inches of solid steel in less than a minute and
   pierce a twelve-inch piece of the hardest steel in less than ten
   minutes--a task that would take a saw almost twenty hours to
   accomplish.

When the soul burns with the heat of great enthusiasm, it will burn
through obstacles that are entirely insuperable to ordinary efforts.

    (919)


   =Enthusiasm for One’s Work=--See ART, DEVOTION TO.


                              ENTICEMENT

   In the legend, the Duchess Isabella, wishing earnestly to obtain
   some object, was instructed by the crafty court astrologer to
   kiss day by day for a hundred days a certain beautiful picture,
   and she would receive the fulfilment of her wish. It was a
   sinister trick, for the picture contained a subtle poison
   which stained the lips with every salutation. Little by little
   the golden tresses of the queenly woman turned white, her
   eyes became dim, her color faded, her lips became black; but,
   infatuated, the suicidal kiss was continued until before the
   hundred days were complete the royal dupe lay dead.

So we yield ourselves to the sorcery of sin; despite many warnings,
we persist in our fellowship with what seems truth, beauty,
liberty, pleasure, until our whole soul is poisoned and destroyed.
(Text.)--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (920)

   See ALLUREMENT, FATAL.


                              ENVIRONMENT

   The Seminole Indians have a tradition regarding the white man’s
   origin and superiority. The Great Spirit made three men of
   fair complexion and then led them to a lake and bade them leap
   in. One immediately obeyed, and came out of the water whiter
   than before; the second did not leap in until the water became
   slightly muddy, and when he bathed he came out copper-colored;
   the third leaped in when the water was black with mud and he
   came out black.

Every man has some choice as to the kind of environment into which he
will plunge, and the color of his character will ultimately show his
choice.

    (921)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The gardener bird of New Guinea builds its nest, and lays out a
   garden-plot in front, of grass and mosses; and when the female
   bird is sitting on her eggs the mate flies about in search of
   the brightest-colored leaves and flowers, which are placed upon
   this plateau of garden.

Many men have been reclaimed and encouraged by surrounding them with a
beautiful environment.

    (922)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Surely, it is not environment that makes temperament. Bittern
   and blackbird both frequent bogs, yet the bittern is a
   lonely misanthrope, whom I more than half suspect of being
   melancholy-mad, while the blackbird is as cheery and as fond of
   his fellows as a candidate.--WINTHROP PACKARD, “Wild
   Pastures.”

    (923)

       *       *       *       *       *

   You may take a piece of wax, and a piece of meat, and some sand,
   and some clay, and some shavings, and put them in the fire, and
   see how they act. One goes to melting, and one to frying, and
   one to drying up, and one to hardening, and one to blazing; and
   every one acted on by the same agent.

So, under identical moral influences and in the same environment,
one man goes wrong, another repents, and another remains indifferent.
Not what is done to us but what we do is the thing that determines
character and destiny.

    (924)


                      ENVIRONMENT, ADAPTATION TO

Joseph Cook taught that character tends to assume a fixt type, as
marked as in the case of mice, cited below:

   Mice were originally natives of southern Asia. From there they
   have accompanied man in his wanderings to all parts of the
   world, traveling, as he has traveled, in ox-teams and on the
   backs of donkeys, by steamship and railway; taking up their
   quarters wherever he does, first in log-cabins with thatched
   roofs; and finally, in some instances, on the nineteenth floor
   of a steel building where generation after generation may live
   and die in turn without having so much as touched foot to the
   earth.

   Strangely enough, the race seems to be proof against the
   changes wrought upon most animals by difference in environment.
   Specimens from the opposite sides of the globe, or from
   widely separated latitudes, are said to be practically
   indistinguishable, as if at last the species had hit upon a
   style of form and coloring perfectly suited to all conditions of
   life.--WITMER STONE and WILLIAM EVERETT CRAM,
   “American Animals.”

    (925)


   =Environment and Man=--See MEAN, THE GOLDEN.


   =Environment Controlled=--See CONTROL OF CIRCUMSTANCES.


                     ENVIRONMENT, CREATING OUR OWN

Often the individual bemoans the depression of environment. A converse
fact may be referred to, namely, that man produces his own environment.
It is in his power largely to make his own world, by paying attention
to the things of himself. An illustration of this is found by an
English writer who insists that we can make our own climates, as he
says:

   Effective sanitary ventilation should supply gentle and
   uniformly diffused currents of air of moderate and equal
   temperature throughout the house. We talk a great deal about
   the climate here and the climate there; and when we grow old,
   and can afford it, we move to Bournemouth, Torquay, Menton,
   Nice, Algiers, etc., for better climates, forgetting all the
   while that the climate in which we practically live is not that
   out-of-doors, but the indoor climate of our dwellings, the
   which, in a properly constructed house, may be regulated to
   correspond to that of any latitude we may choose.

    (926)


                       ENVIRONMENT, DESTRUCTIVE

An English writer, with some novel ideas of how the smoke-laden
atmosphere of London might be purified, writes:

   At one time I thought of proposing the establishment of
   horticultural home-missions for promoting the dissemination of
   flowerpot shrubs in the metropolis, and of showing how much the
   atmosphere of London would be improved if every London family
   had one little sweetbrier-bush, a lavender-plant, or a hardy
   heliotrope to each of its members; so that a couple of millions
   of such ozone generators should breathe their sweetness into the
   dank and dead atmosphere of the denser central regions of London.

   A little practical experience of the difficulty of growing a
   clean cabbage, or maintaining alive any sort of shrub in the
   midst of our soot-drizzle, satisfied me that the mission would
   fail, even tho the sweetbriers were given away by the district
   visitors; for these simple hardy plants perish in a mid-London
   atmosphere unless their leaves are periodically sponged and
   syringed, to wash away the soot particles that otherwise close
   their stomata and suffocate the plant.

The ingenious scheme would fail because the plants themselves would
become foul and need to be cleansed. Failing this, they would die. So
in life character is easily incrusted with the spirit of worldliness.
(Text.)

    (927)


                        ENVIRONMENT INADEQUATE

   Shortly after Chief Justice Chase had gone for the first time
   to Washington, he was returning to the West. The train stopt
   at a little station in Virginia, and he was informed that it
   was the birthplace of Patrick Henry. He immediately left the
   car and stood upon the platform, admiring the magnificence of
   the scenery that opens before the traveler. He said, “What an
   atmosphere! What a view! What glorious mountains! No wonder that
   Patrick Henry grew here.” One of the natives, who was standing
   by his side, quietly replied, “Yes, sir; but as far as I have
   heard, that landscape and those mountains have always been here;
   but we haven’t seen any more Patrick Henrys.”

    (928)


                        ENVIRONMENT, SPIRITUAL

   A Dutch scientist has just completed five years’ study in
   South America. He took some insects from Holland into the rich
   tropic atmosphere, changed their environment, put them in a
   friendly environment, and gave them the best food. He expected
   to modify their coloring, having exchanged the damp, foggy
   sky of Holland for the brilliant hues of the tropics. And lo!
   these insects doubled their size; the dim subdued tints became
   gay and brilliant. At last he discovered that insects that in
   Holland crawled, in the South spread their wings to fly and
   meet God’s sun. He began with potato-bugs in Holland; he ended
   with brilliant creatures that lived on the nectar of flowers,
   and only five summers and winters stood between the marvel. Oh,
   marvelous transformation, through environment and food! More
   marvelous still the way the soul can grow. Last year you lived
   in the damp, foggy miasmatic levels of selfishness; sordidness,
   like a cloud, wrapt you about. Suppose you take down your tent,
   and move into the tropic realm of love and faith and hope. Open
   the soul’s wings to the light, the sun and dew of God’s spirit.
   Live in the atmosphere of purity and prayer. Expel hate and
   fear, like poisonous winds. Imitate Christ’s life. Love the
   master spirits. Read the great poets. Insist upon leisure to
   grow ripe. Guard your hours of solitude; practice the presence
   of God.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (929)


                      ENVIRONMENT THAT TRANSFORMS

   The Japanese have an ingenious way of changing the color and
   appearance of birds and animals. For example, white sparrows
   are produced by selecting a pair of grayish birds and keeping
   them in a white cage, in a white room, where they are attended
   by a person drest in white. The mental effect on a series of
   generations of birds results in completely white birds. (Text.)

    (930)


                                 ENVY

   The Duchess of Argyll is reported to have written to various
   European monarchs asking them whom they envied. Among the
   answers was one from the Czar of Russia, as follows: “I
   sincerely envy every man who is not loaded down with the cares
   of a great empire, and who has not to weep for the woes of a
   people.”

Not infrequently the envied are the envying, because each one is apt to
think his own lot the hardest.

    (931)

       *       *       *       *       *

Good men are often hated for their goodness by bad men, who can not
endure the contrast with themselves. An unidentified writer points out
this kind of envy in the following verse:

    A glowworm sat in the grass;
      As I passed through the wood I found it;
    Bright as a diamond it shone,
      With a halo of light around it.

    A toad came up from the fen;
      It was ugly in every feature;
    Like a thief it crept to the worm,
      And spat on the shining creature.

    “What have I done,” said the worm,
      “As I sat here in silence nightly?”
    “Nothing,” replied the toad;
      “But why did you shine so brightly?” (Text.)

    (932)


                            ENVY GRATIFIED

   Persons accustomed to gaze in awe upon suit-cases and
   steamer-trunks covered with labels of every size and color,
   thinking the while enviously of the fortunate owners of such
   baggage, who have such an advantage over the poor stay-at-homes,
   may perhaps be surprized to learn that there are shops where
   such labels may be had.

   It is quite feasible, therefore, for any one to have his case
   or trunk covered with nicely worn labels, indicating that the
   owner thereof has roamed from Sydney to San Francisco; from
   Copenhagen to Colombo, to say nothing of all the capitals of
   Europe and Asia, with divers famous water-places thrown in for
   good measure.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (933)


   =Ephemera=--See BREVITY OF LIFE; HAPPINESS A GOOD.


   =Epidemic from Neglect=--See NEGLECT, CONSEQUENCES OF.


   =Epitaph, Curious=--See MAN A TIMEKEEPER.


                               EPITAPHS

The following epitaphs, with the comment on them, are taken from the
London _Daily News_:

   There is an interesting epitaph on a gravestone in Poling
   churchyard, Sussex. It runs:

            Here
        Lieth ye Body
    of Alice, ye wife, of Bobt
      Woolbridge, who Died
      the 27th of May, 1740.
        Aged 44 years.

    The World is a round thing,
      And full of crooked streets.
    Death is a market place,
      Where all men meets.
    If Life was a thing
      That money could buy,
    The Rich would live,
      And the poor would die.

   Here is another:

    Poor Martha Snell has gone away,
    Her would if she could, but her couldn’t stay,
    She had two sore legs and a badish cough,
    But it were her legs as carried her off.

   Less comic, but more witty, is the epitaph found at Kingsbridge,
   S. Devon.

   Here lieth the body of Robert (commonly called “Bone”) Phillips,
   who died July 27th, 1793, aged 65 years, and at whose request
   the following lines are here inscribed:

    Here lie I at the Chancel door;
    Here lie I because I am poor;
    The further in the more you’ll pay,
    Yet here lie I as warm as they.

   Here is an epitaph on a last-maker, who is said to be buried at
   Llanflantwythyl:

    Stop, stranger, stop, and wipe a tear
    For the _Last_ man at _last_ lies here,
    Tho ever-_last_-ing he has been,
    He has at _last_ passed life’s _last_ scene.
    Famed for good works, much time he passed,
    In doing good--He has done his _last_.

   The following, more philosophic and general in its application,
   is on an eighteenth-century tombstone in Saint Mary’s Parish
   Churchyard, Mold, North Wales.

    Life’s like an Inn where Travelers stay.
    Some only Breakfast, and away.
    Others to dinner stay, and are well fed.
    The oldest only sup and go to Bed.
    Long is the Bill who lingers out the day.
    He that goes the soonest Has the Least to Pay.

   The correspondent also sends us an epitaph which has pithiness
   and force. It runs:

    Here lies W. W.
    Who will nevermore trouble you.

   It was an epitaph which called forth the following topical
   epigram from Dr. Samuel Clarke, who had just seen the
   inscription, “Domus Ultima,” on the vault belonging to the Dukes
   of Richmond in the Cathedral of Chichester. In a mood of satire
   he wrote:

    Did he who thus inscribed the wall
    Not read, or not believe, St. Paul,
    Who says there is, where’er it stands,
    Another house, not made with hands.
    Or may we gather from these words
    That house is not a House of Lords.

    (934)


   =Equality, The Spirit of=--See RESPECT, NO, OF PERSONS.


                             EQUALIZATION

The practise of some physicians is practically the philosophy of
Christian socialism: “From every man according to his ability, to every
man according to his need.”

   “A Philadelphia judge,” says _American Medicine_, “has given
   expression to the opinion that ‘the life of a rich man is worth
   more than the life of a poor man, and the physician has a right
   to charge the millionaire more for his services than he does
   the laborer.’ He went on further to say that ‘the physician is
   unlike the merchant, who has goods of different quality to sell
   at various prices. He must give his best service in every case.
   Human life has a pecuniary value of variable quality, greater in
   the millionaire than in the laborer. Thus, the practitioner of
   common sense has a maximum and a minimum charge, and makes out
   his bills to suit the pecuniary circumstances of his patients.’”
   The writer thinks that “there will be no dissent on the part of
   right-thinking people” from this view. Carried to its logical
   conclusion, it would appear to justify a sliding-scale of
   prices for all the necessities of life, carefully adjusted to
   the varying incomes of the users. (Text.)

    (935)

       *       *       *       *       *

The conclusion reached in this extract leaves out of account the
presence in the cosmos of a living God:

   The quantity of energy existing in the universe remains
   constant, but transforms itself little by little into heat
   uniformly distributed at a temperature everywhere identical. In
   the end, therefore, there will be neither chemical phenomena nor
   manifestation of life; the world will still exist, but without
   motion; and, so to speak, dead.--LUCIEN POINCARÉ, “The New
   Physics and its Evolution.”

    (936)


   =Equilibrium in Nature=--See COMPLEXITY IN ORGANS.


   =Equipment and Results=--See MEDICAL MISSIONS.


   =Error as a Benefactor=--See DISCOVERY, ACCIDENTAL.


                            ERROR CORRECTED

Human nature must be perfected by long processes of improvement
analogous to that employed in getting a perfect chronometer.

   From the practical point of view, chronometry has made in
   these last few years very sensible progress. The errors
   in the movements of chronometers are corrected in a much
   more systematic way than formerly, and certain inventions
   have enabled important improvements to be effected in the
   construction of these instruments. Thus, the curious properties
   which steel combined with nickel--so admirably studied by
   M. Guillaume--exhibits in the matter of dilatation are now
   utilized so as to almost completely annihilate the influence of
   variations of temperature.--LUCIEN POINCARÉ, “The New
   Physics and its Evolution.”

    (937)


   =Error Exposed=--See DOGMATISM, MISTAKEN.


                          ERROR IN REASONING

It frequently happens that men are perfectly correct in their premises
and in observing the facts, while their conclusions may be wholly wrong.

   Ptolemy clearly saw that, if the alternation from day to night
   is caused by a rotation of the earth, then points on the equator
   must move with a speed of nearly one thousand miles an hour, a
   velocity exceeding more than tenfold that of the wind in the
   severest storm. A terrible gale would thus always blow from the
   east; birds in flight and objects thrown into the air would be
   left behind and carried with frightful rapidity toward the west.
   As these things do not happen, the earth, Ptolemy concludes,
   must be at rest.--CHARLES LANE POOR, “The Solar System.”

    (938)


   =Error Leading to Success=--See EXPERIMENT.


   =Eruption of Evil=--See EVIL ERUPTIVE.


   =Escape=--See INGENUITY; RESCUE.


                              ESSENTIALS

   Immediately after one of the fiercest battles of the Civil War a
   chaplain of one of the Federal regiments passed over the field
   of conflict in the performance of his duty. He noticed among
   the prostrate bodies one which moved, and quickly was at the
   side of a dying soldier. Recognizing that the man had not long
   to live, he at once proceeded to administer, but in rather a
   formal manner, the consolations of religion. Kneeling at the
   man’s side, he asked him to what church he belonged, and the
   surprizing answer came, “The Church which God hath purchased
   with His own blood.” “Oh, but that is not what I mean,” said the
   minister, “what is your belief?” The mortally wounded disciple
   replied, “I know whom I have believed and am persuaded that He
   is able to keep that which I have committed unto Him against
   that day.” “Oh,” said the chaplain, “but you do not understand
   me--what is your persuasion?” The answer came from lips which
   were quivering in the agonies of death, “I am persuaded that
   neither death nor life shall be able to separate us from the
   love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord,” and with these
   words the soldier passed into the presence of Him who is the
   Savior of all them that believe in Him.

    (939)


   =Estimating One’s Self=--See SELF-DEPRECIATION.


                     ETERNAL LIFE, MAKING ROOM FOR

   Have you ever noticed what happens when from one cause or
   another the water-mains in any street have become choked or
   polluted by the intrusion of some foreign body? You will see
   some one come along with an iron instrument and turn on the
   stopcock at some point in the roadway. Immediately there comes
   an up-rush, a mighty volume of water--swirling, heaving,
   rolling, hurtling out of the pipes beneath. And you will
   observe, too, that for a time it seems to be charged with
   filth; whatever it is that has been blocking the flow of the
   life-giving element is being stirred up and flung out with
   immense force. But after a time the jet clears, the evil is
   gone, the water becomes sweet and pure, and the flow full and
   steady. Then the covering is replaced; the cleansing process
   is at an end. And so it is with you and me. God has to get rid
   of our selfishness somehow that the life eternal may possess
   us through and through. The cleansing may seem to be a stern
   matter, but it is best to let Him have his way to the uttermost.
   We must be crucified with Christ in order to live with Him, but
   no man would ever repine at what it costs if he could foresee
   what is to be gained.--R. J. CAMPBELL, _The Christian
   Commonwealth_.

    (940)


                         ETERNAL, THE, AT HAND

   A lady recently related in one of the journals how she went
   through a veritable blizzard to view a flower-show. With one
   step she passed out of the wild night, the deep snow, the bitter
   wind, into a brilliant hall filled with hyacinths, tulips,
   jonquils, cyclamens, azaleas, roses and orchids.

It is the privilege of godly men, at any time, to pass at a step from
the savage conflicts of life right into the sweet fellowship of God,
finding grace to help in the time of need.--W. L. WATKINSON,
“The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (941)


                               ETERNITY

Walter Samuel Swisher is the author of these lines:

    Unquiet sea, that endlessly doth stretch
      Beyond the straining, finite sight of man:
    Why dost thou toss in infinite unrest,
      Oh, why no far, faint shore-line can we scan?
    Full many a bark thy serried billows crossed,
      Full many a sail hath spread before the wind,
    But none hath e’er returned; the tempest-tost
      And anxious mariner doth haven find
    In fairer clime, in sunny land afar,
      Where no storms rudely break or winds contend.
    There nothing enters in their joy to mar,
      Who have the peace of God, which knows no end.
    Oh, may we, too, that stand with straining eye--
      Looking far out, where wind and wave contend--
    Set sail with hope to those fair lands that lie
      Beneath the peace of God, that knows no end.

    (942)


                          ETERNITY AS A SPUR

   Once, when tempted to linger in a lovely landscape, Wesley
   cried, “I believe there is an eternity; I must arise and go
   hence”; and those words express the temper of his life. He lived
   in the spirit of Andrew Marvel’s strong lines:

    Ever at my back I hear
    Time’s winged chariots hurrying near.

   “And this,” Johnson complained, “is very disagreeable to a
   man who loves to fold his legs and have his talk out as I
   do.”--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (943)


   =Ether, Doctrine of=--See MYSTERY IN RELIGION.


   =Ethical Judgments=--See JUDGING FROM FACTS.


                           ETHICAL PRINCIPLE

   Horace Bushnell, the great preacher, when he was a young man,
   was troubled with religious doubts. He was an instructor in Yale
   College when a gracious revival prevailed in that institution.
   Fearing lest he should stand in the way of younger men who might
   follow his example, he became troubled in mind exceedingly. He
   walked the floor of his room in deep study. At last he reached
   this conclusion: “There is one thing of which I have no doubt:
   there is a difference between right and wrong. Am I willing
   to throw myself on the side of right as far as I can see the
   right?” That ethical principle dissolved his doubts. (Text.)

    (944)


   =Etiquette=--See ABSURD NOTIONS.


   =Etiquette, Breaches of=--See MISSIONARIES’ MISTAKES.


   =Etiquette in the East=--See CALLS AND CONVEYANCES IN THE EAST;
      PROPRIETY.


   =Etiquette Superseded=--See COURAGE VERSUS ETIQUETTE.


                         EVANESCENT LITERATURE

   We may be sure that any piece of literature which attracts
   only by some trick of style, however it may blaze up for a
   day and startle the world with its flash, lacks the element
   of endurance. We do not need much experience to tell us the
   difference between a lamp and a Roman candle. Even in our day
   we have seen many reputations flare up, illuminate the sky, and
   then go out in utter darkness. When we take a proper historical
   perspective, we see that it is the universal, the simple, that
   lasts.--CHARLES DUDLEY WARNER, _Atlantic Monthly_.

    (945)


                         EVANGELISM, APOSTOLIC

   As the fairy god Ceres in the old Greek mythologies went forth
   from Mount Olympus moving over the desert land, touching the
   miry bog and widening it into a river; touching the thorn-tree
   and causing it to be laden with olives, and the brier and it
   bears its luscious figs; touching the desert plain and it
   becomes a garden, so these disciples, filled with the light
   and love of Jesus Christ, go forth into the mortal darkness
   and spiritual destitution of the heathen world until under
   their influence pagan Rome casts all her idol gods into the sea
   and crowns Jesus King of kings and Lord of lords.--J. H.
   JOWETT.

    (946)


                        EVANGELISM, UNHERALDED

In my mail the other evening I received this unsigned letter:

   “I won’t let this incident pass without writing to you of it.
   My little daughter is a member of your Sunday-school. I do not
   have any religious faith. All my life I have been an unbeliever.
   The children of our neighborhood went to Sunday-school, and my
   little girl wanted to go with them. I consented. She came home
   one Sunday with certain verses to commit to memory, and said
   that when she learned them perfectly and recited them to her
   teacher, she would get a Bible as a reward. Last Sunday she did
   not return at the usual time. I waited for her for a while, and
   then went to the Sunday-school to see if she was there. I went
   into a room, and at once saw my little one standing and reciting
   the verses which she had studied. The young lady who was hearing
   her had her arm around her. Oh, sir! I can not describe the
   feeling that went through my whole being. I thought, If some one
   had done that to me when I was a child, what a different life
   I might have had! As I stood looking upon the scene, I made up
   my mind that I would start next Sunday and go to church, and
   try and get into touch with the spirit which the Sunday-school
   teacher showed.”--J. F. CARSON, _Sunday-school
   Times_.

    (947)


                          EVANGELISM, UNUSUAL

   Rev. W. E. Bentley, who is rector of an Episcopal Church in
   Brooklyn, has induced nearly twenty young actors to quit the
   stage and become Episcopal ministers. He maintains what is
   almost a theological seminary.

    (948)


                            EVANGELIZATION

In regard to the divine method for the evangelization of the world, the
following bit of imagery is not without its deeper meaning. Mr. S. D.
Gordon imagines that after Jesus went back to heaven, He and Gabriel
had a conversation something like this:

   Gabriel is saying: “Master, you died for the whole world down
   there, did you not?” “Yes.” “You must have suffered much.”
   “Yes.” “And do they all know about it?” “Oh, no; only a few in
   Palestine know about it so far.” “Well, Master, what have you
   done about telling the world that you have died for them? What
   is your plan?”

   “Well,” the Master is supposed to answer, “I asked Peter and
   James and John and Andrew, and some more of them down there,
   just to make it the business of their lives to tell others, and
   others, and yet others, and still others, until the last man in
   the farthest circle has heard the story.”

   And Gabriel is supposed to answer: “Yes--but--suppose Peter
   fails. Suppose after a while John simply does not tell others.
   Suppose their descendants, their successors away off in the
   first edge of the twentieth century, get so busy that they do
   not tell others, what then?”

   And back comes the voice of Jesus, “Gabriel, I haven’t made any
   other plans--I’m counting on them.” (Text.)

    (949)


                              EVAPORATION

   Said Moody: “We are leaky vessels and need constant
   replenishing. If we cut a leafy branch from a growing plant and
   put it in a warm oven, the leaves and stem will soon become
   smaller and lighter and more brittle, because the water in
   the branch has been evaporated by the heat. Often more than
   four-fifths of the weight of a growing plant is water. Hay is
   dried grass. The farmer cuts his grass and lets it lie exposed
   to the heat of the sun until most of the water it contained has
   evaporated.” (Text.)

    (950)


   =Ever-living, The=--See FUTURE REUNION.


   =Evidence=--See PROOF.


                          EVIDENCE, CHRISTIAN

   Mr. A. J. Cassatt, the late president of the Pennsylvania
   Railway, was once making a quiet tour over one of the branches
   of the system, and wandered into an out-of-the-way switch-yard,
   where something one of the yardmen was doing did not meet with
   his approbation. He made some suggestion to the man, who asked:
   “Who are you that’s trying to teach me my business.” “I am an
   officer of the road,” replied Mr. Cassatt. “Let’s see your
   switch-key, then,” said the man suspiciously. Mr. Cassatt pulled
   from his hip pocket his key-ring, to which was attached the
   switch-key, which no railroad man in service is ever without. It
   was sufficient proof for the switchman, who then did as he was
   told.

If we are going to have any real leadership in dealing with the souls
of men they must see in our conversation, in the tone of our character,
in the spirit of our life, that we possess the “switch-key,” the
evident presence of Christ. (Text.)

    (951)


   =Evidence, Conclusive=--See TESTIMONY, A SHEEP’S.


                           EVIDENCE, LIVING

The advocates of moderate drinking of intoxicants are among the most
persistent and audacious of advisers of their own various deleterious
decoctions, but they constantly supply, involuntarily enough, the most
appalling contradiction of their own commendations.

   A gentleman riding on a car noticed on the advertising spaces,
   placarded in immense type, the words: “Pure Rye Whisky--Tones
   up the Body, Brightens the Intellect, Invigorates the Soul.”
   This kind of “puffing” advertisement is common enough and the
   gentleman might have paid very little attention to it but his
   eyes happened to drop to a seat underneath the advertisement
   on which was lounging a drunken man. The eyes of this wretched
   being were bleared, his face bloated, with the lines of
   dissipation deeply engraven in it, and his body slouched
   down in the collapsing style characteristic of the habitual
   inebriate. That drunken man was a lurid illustration of the
   absolute falsehood of the advertisement. He as a ruined victim
   constituted the true advertisement of the effects of alcoholic
   indulgence.

    (952)


                        EVIDENCE, PROVIDENTIAL

   In the year 1799, Lieutenant Michael Fitton, of H. M. S.
   _Ferret_, was cruising off Port Royal, when his crew caught
   a big shark. Inside it was found a bundle of ship’s papers
   belonging to an American brig, the _Nancy_. On his return to
   Port Royal, Lieutenant Fitton found that the _Nancy_ had been
   brought in for carrying contraband of war. Her skipper produced
   other papers to the authorities, which apparently cleared the
   ship--false papers which had been prepared in the event of the
   vessel being stopt. Her true papers, which proved that the
   _Nancy_ was deeply implicated in the contraband traffic, had
   been thrown overboard just before she was overhauled, and the
   shark had swallowed them. The case was tried in the court-house
   at Kingston, where, at the critical moment, Lieutenant
   Fitton appeared on the scene and produced his find, to the
   consternation of the other side. The _Nancy_ was forthwith
   condemned as a lawful prize, and her skipper was fined and sent
   to jail.

   The head of the shark is in London, at the United Service
   Institution. It was for some time set up on show at Port Royal,
   Jamaica, with this label attached: “Lieutenant Fitton recommends
   these jaws for a collar for neutrals to swear through.”

    (953)


                          EVIL, BEGINNINGS OF

   A while ago the omnibus on its way from Gray’s Inn Road to
   Islington (England) had to traverse a narrow and dangerous piece
   of roadway--a sharp, slippery declivity called “The Devil’s
   Slide.” How terrible, indeed, is the devil’s slide! How tempting
   it is!--a short cut, a very short cut, to fame, wealth, power,
   pleasure. How graduated and smooth it is! What a specious name
   it often has! Strangely enough, that declivity in London was
   called “Mount Pleasant”; and the downward roads of life often
   are known by charming names. But enter on that slide, and you
   soon attain a startling velocity; sooner or later you arrive
   at an ignominious doom. Let no man think himself safe. The
   circles of crime dipping to very murky depths of hell are not
   far from any one of us. (Text.)--W. L. WATKINSON, “The
   Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (954)


                            EVIL BY DEGREES

Many a man grows so accustomed to his evil environment that he fails to
realize how he is being spiritually ruined.

   In a certain laboratory experiment a live frog was placed in
   water heated at the rate of .0036 of a degree Fahrenheit per
   second. The frog never moved or showed any sign of distress, but
   was found at the end of two hours and a half to be dead. The
   explanation was that at any point of time the temperature of the
   water showed such little contrast with that of a moment before
   that the attention of the frog was never attracted by it. It was
   boiled to death without noticing it.

    (955)


                            EVIL DEFLECTED

   Surmounting the tower of the City Hall, Philadelphia, is
   a colossal statue of William Penn. During a thunder-storm
   sometimes the lightning plays about its surface of bronze,
   like oil on water. Electricians say that it can not be damaged
   because a two-inch copper cable runs down into a well beneath
   the foundation-walls, conducting the dangerous current
   harmlessly away.

Still more immune from evil is the man whom God protects. (Text.)

    (956)


                        EVIL DEVELOPMENT RAPID

   Evil grows of itself, grows vigorously. With infinite care we
   rear the rare roses, but how spontaneously and luxuriantly
   spring the weeds! By costly culture we ripen the golden sheaf,
   but how the noxious poppies bloom! Very tenderly must we
   nourish things of beauty, but how the vermin breed and swarm!
   And so, while the germs of good in our heart come to fruition
   only after long years of vigilance and devotion, the tares
   are ever springing up in a night, dashing the beauty with
   their blackness, and bearing the hundredfold of bitterness
   and blasting.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured
   Sackcloth.”

    (957)


                            EVIL, DISGUISED

If destructive moral evils were shown in their real hideousness, no one
would be drawn toward them! Vernon L. Kellogg describes the disguise of
a certain insect:

   The whole front of his [a water insect’s] face was smooth and
   covered over by a sort of mask, so that his terrible jaws and
   catching nippers were invisible. However, we soon understood
   this. The mask was the folded-up “catcher,” so disposed that it
   served, when not in use, actually to hide its own iniquity as
   well as that of the yawning mouth behind. Only when some small
   insect, all unsuspecting this smooth masked face, comes close,
   do the long tongs unfold, shoot out, and reveal the waiting jaws
   and thirsty throat. A veritable dragon, indeed; sly and cruel
   and ever hungry for living prey. (Text.)--“Insect Stories.”

    (958)


                            EVIL, ERUPTIVE

   Solfatara, a semi-extinct volcano near Pozzuoli, has opened a
   new crater two hundred and fifty feet from the ancient one. It
   is emitting a voluminous column of sulfurous gases. The activity
   of Solfatara always is supposed to coincide with the inactivity
   of Vesuvius.

   To stop one bad habit is not to transform the nature. The wicked
   are like a troubled sea that can not rest. If there are evil
   fires in the heart when you choke off one evil course the evil
   breaks out in some other way.

    (959)


                           EVIL, ESCAPE FROM

The saying which Rev. W. H. Fitchett attributes to John Wesley’s sister
reminds one of Christ’s petition, “I pray not that thou wouldst take
them out of the world, but that thou wouldst keep them from its evil.”

   Patty Wesley kept her intellect bright, wore a serene face amid
   all troubles, and by the sheer charm of her mental qualities
   became one of Dr. Johnson’s most intimate and valued companions.
   “Evil,” she once said, “was not kept from me, but evil has been
   kept from harming me.”--“Wesley and His Century.”

    (960)


                             EVIL GERMINAL

   One evil contains within itself the possibilities of all
   evil. Medical writers have now much to tell touching the
   convertibility of disease. They have come to the conclusion
   that the constitutional defect appearing in a family in one
   generation is not necessarily transmitted in that exact form to
   succeeding generations. What appears at one time as insanity
   will reveal itself at another as epilepsy or paralysis;
   convulsions will reassert themselves as hysteria or insanity;
   insanity is converted into a tendency to suicide; the suicidal
   tendency will become a mania for drinking; what is neuralgia
   in the father may be melancholia in the son; what is deformity
   in one generation may be apoplexy in the next. In an afflicted
   family the constitutional defect has curious ramifications, and
   undergoes strange metamorphoses.

It is much the same with evil. Men will indulge in one vice, while
they express the utmost abhorrence of other vices of which they could
never think themselves susceptible. But this is a mistake. All evils
are one in root and essence; and surrendering ourselves to one form
of iniquity, we surrender ourselves to all; changing circumstances
and temptations will involve the lawbreaker in other sins, and in
aggravated guilt.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (961)

       *       *       *       *       *

   When the father of William the Conqueror was departing for
   the Holy Land, he called together the peers of Normandy and
   required them to swear allegiance to his young son, who was a
   mere infant; when the barons smiled at the feeble babe, the king
   promptly replied, “He is little, but he will grow.” He did grow,
   and the babyhand ere long ruled the nations as with a rod of
   iron.

The same may be said of evil in its slenderest beginning, in its most
inocuous form: “It is little, but it will grow.” In its beginning it
is a fancy, a flash of thought, a look, a word, a touch, a gesture, a
tone, an accent, an embryo that no microscope could detect; but at last
it is a Cain, a Judas, a Nero. The acorn-cup yields the upas-tree; out
of a spark flashes hell.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured
Sackcloth.”

    (962)


                            EVIL, IGNORING

How many things men permit to trouble them that they could just as
easily pass by and forget!

    Has it been a weary day?
            Let it pass;
    Lots of others on the way--
            They will pass.
    Soon the skies will start to lighten,
    All around begin to brighten--
    And misfortune cease to frighten--
            Let it pass.

    Does the world the wrong way rub you?
            Let it pass.
    Does your best friend seem to snub you?
            Let it pass.
    Chances are you were mistaken,
    None are ever quite forsaken.
    All for naught your faith was shaken--
            Let it pass.

    (963)


   =Evil Multiplies=--See WEEDS, WARFARE AGAINST.


                         EVIL, PROTECTION FROM

Should not character be saturated with preservative principles that
will repel evil influences as the piling mentioned below resists the
teredo:

   What will ultimately be the largest plant in the world for
   treating timber with preservatives, is now operated at
   Somerville, Tex., by the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fé Railroad,
   says _The Railway World_. While every form of timber
   treatment is used, the creosote system has proved the most
   successful. Creosote is shipped to Galveston in shiploads and
   transported thence to Somerville, where it is used to preserve
   timber of every variety. This is very expensive, as may be
   seen when it is known that piling in its natural state costs
   about forty cents a foot, while a treated pile costs between
   ninety cents and one dollar. But it pays to go to the extra
   expense. Creosoted piling that has been in the Galveston bridge
   for nearly fifteen years is still sound and in a good state
   of preservation; while the average life of an untreated pile
   is less than one year, many of them being unfit for service
   after being in the water thirty days. This quick destruction is
   caused by the attacks of the teredo, a salt-water mollusk that
   honeycombs the wood to such an extent that in a short time it
   will not bear its own weight.

    (964)


                          EVIL, PURGING FROM

   What would not the patient give to have the last fiber of the
   dreadful cancer removed, for while that fiber is there every
   possibility of the malady is there! Air, sunshine, fragrance,
   are all said to be fatal to destroying germs; let us saturate
   our soul day by day in the atmosphere and light and sweetness of
   the upper worlds, so shall all evil things die in us, and all
   good things live and grow in us.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The
   Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (965)


                          EVIL, REPELLENCE OF

   There was a white plant growing by the entrance to a coal-mine.
   One of the miners took a handful of the coal-dust and threw it
   on the leaves, but not a particle adhered. The plant was covered
   with a wonderful enamel on which nothing could leave a stain.

It is not the Master’s plan for us that we should be taken out of the
sinful world, to live our life where no evil can touch us. But God, who
can make a little plant so that no dust can stain it, can by His grace
also make our lives impervious to sin’s defiling.

    (966)


                         EVIL SELF-DESTRUCTIVE

   Dr. Walter Kempster, of Milwaukee, Wis., suggests that as all
   the nations will probably soon agree to exclude anarchists from
   their territory, an island should be purchased in some healthy
   climate, to which they should all be exiled. Vessels should
   patrol the coast to prevent any leaving, but no attempt should
   be made to govern the colony. The anarchists would then have
   precisely what they demand--a colony free from government. They
   could then practise their heartless methods on one another and
   throw bombs with impunity. A better scheme to disgust them with
   anarchy could not be devised.

It is on the same principle that the Bible tells us God will act, to
extirpate evil from His universe by giving the evildoer opportunity to
act out his nature. (Text.)

    (967)


   =Evils, Small=--See SMALL EVILS HARDEST TO BEAR.


                          EVIL TURNED TO GOOD

   The Mauruans told the missionaries that they formerly attributed
   every evil that befell them to the anger of their “evil
   spirits,” but now they worshiped the living and true God, and
   they pointed to the demolished Maraes and mutilated idols as the
   proof of the great change. The change in the name of the gods,
   whom they now called “evil spirits,” was an indication of the
   radical change in their religious beliefs. In some cases the
   spears which had been used in warfare were found converted into
   staves to support the balustrades of the pulpit stairs, and not
   a vestige of idolatry was to be seen.--PIERSON, “The
   Miracles of Missions.”

    (968)


                          EVIL, VIRULENCY OF

In the history of the great calamity of Asiatic cholera in this country
in 1832, mention is made of the emigrant steamer that brought the
disease to these shores. The steamer touched at Quebec and at Montreal,
and landed passengers infected with the disease at both points. Over
this intervening distance of two hundred miles, the disease traveled
in thirty hours. Pursuing the succeeding events of this history, the
writer says:

   Over this long distance, thickly inhabited on both shores of the
   St. Lawrence, cholera made a single leap, without infecting a
   single village or a single house between the two cities, with
   the following exceptions. A man picked up a mattress thrown from
   the _Voyageur_, and he and his wife died of cholera; another
   man, fishing on the St. Lawrence, was requested to bury a body
   from the _Voyageur_, and he and his wife and nephew died. But
   more than 4,000 persons died of cholera in Montreal, and more
   than an equal number in Quebec. An emigrant ship conveying the
   disease had meanwhile touched at New York, and the mortality
   soon reached 3,500. These figures will at least indicate the
   virulence of the disease, when once originated, and the rapidity
   with which it spreads.

In this account we see that every place touched by the plague-ship or
any object from it became a new center from which the disease spread.
So moral evil contaminates. Its virulency spans the centuries and
affects every son of man. (Text.)

    (969)


                               EVOLUTION

   Is the chimpanzee the coming man? The thought of Superintendent
   Conklin, of the Central Park Museum at New York, had a cast
   of that hue. He was deeply interested in the possibilities of
   the development of intelligence and culture in the chimpanzee
   race, and doubtless his dreams went far beyond the daring of
   his spoken hope. “Mr. Crowley,” a somewhat noted and remarkably
   intelligent specimen of this exalted race of monkeys, long
   adorned the museum, and at the time a helpmeet for him was
   imported. Dr. Conklin believed that their offspring would
   inherit their sagacity, and with two or three generations
   of careful training the least he expected was “a chimpanzee
   accustomed to wearing clothes, able to stand erect, capable of
   being taught the meaning of simple commands, and docile enough
   to obey them.” In the fifth or sixth generation, the doctor
   thought he should have chimpanzees able to perform to a limited
   extent the duties of servants. Following out the idea, the
   doctor predicted a gradual improvement in their features and
   eventually a possibility that they might grasp the meaning of
   words and phrases. This is surely a very practical experiment
   in Darwinian evolution, and tho it may seem funny, it is by no
   means ridiculous. If horses and dogs may be trained and taught,
   why not monkeys? And how much more useful would an intelligent
   trained monkey be by reason of his capacity to grasp and handle
   things? The story came a few years ago from South America that
   chimpanzees are already employed there in picking cotton in
   place of the emancipated slaves.--Springfield _Union_.

    (970)


   =Evolution, Objection to=--See BRAIN IN MAN.


   =Exaction=--See IDEAL, THE.


   =Exactness of Nature=--See INDIVIDUALITY OF GERMS.


   =Exaggeration=--See DIMINUTIVES.


                                EXAMPLE

   During one of the hill campaigns in India some years ago, a
   British general was disgusted with the unsoldierlike attitude
   of a young Indian rajah who accompanied the forces. He would
   only condescend to ride, and never attempted to share the toils
   and labors of the march. One day the general decided to give
   him a much-needed lesson. Riding with him on a very hot day,
   he pointed out some soldiers on ahead pushing a gun up a long
   white road. “Do you see those men?” he asked the Indian rajah.
   “Yes, I see them.” “Well, one of them is the grandson of your
   Empress!” It was gallant Prince Christian Victor who delighted
   to share the burden, and who laid down his life later on in the
   South African War. The young rajah took the lesson to heart.
   Queen Victoria’s grandson thought it not undignified to help his
   brother soldiers in the weary labors of the march; henceforward,
   he, too, would help to “bear one another’s burdens.” (Text.)

    (971)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The ancient Romans were accustomed to place in the vestibules of
   their houses the busts of their great men, that the young might
   be reminded of their noble deeds and illustrious virtues.

The deeds and virtues of living men are still better examples. (Text.)

    (972)

       *       *       *       *       *

   People are just as prone now as in the days when Paul wrote
   his first letter to the Corinthians to insist on their “right”
   to do whatever they think there is “no harm” in. “An idol does
   not affect meat one way or the other,” said Paul. “Very well,”
   replies the Corinthian Christian. “Mr. A. invites me to dine
   with him to-night, and I am going. He will have on his table
   parts of an animal which he has just been sacrificing in the
   temple of Venus, but what of that? He might have sold it to
   the butcher, and then if I had bought it, no harm would have
   come of eating it.” “Not so fast,” says the apostle. “If that
   supper is part of the worship even of an idol, you may dishonor
   Christ, of whose body you have partaken, by even seeming to
   worship other spirits. And even if you could afford it, others
   would stumble.” “But shall my liberty be circumscribed by the
   narrow-mindedness of another?” “Certainly,” says the apostle.
   “That is what we live for--to help others, not to eat and drink.”

    (973)

       *       *       *       *       *

It counts for much when men in high station have the moral courage to
condemn unworthy things.

   President Taft walked out of a local theater in the first year
   he was President because he disapproved of the character of the
   play that was being produced. Friends of the President said
   that he was disgusted with the performance. The first act was
   too much for Mr. Taft and his sister-in-law. They saw nothing
   amusing, interesting or instructive in the depiction of typical
   scenes in a house of bad character. In order to avoid attracting
   attention and exciting comment by going out while the players
   were on the stage, they waited until the curtain fell on the
   first act and then left the theater.

    (974)

   See COURAGE; LIVING THE GOSPEL; PRECEPT AND PRACTISE.


                         EXAMPLE, ATTENTION TO

   It is related of William E. Gladstone that at one time, when
   he was a mere boy, he was invited to dine at the home of a
   distinguished nobleman in England, who was also an official of
   high rank.

   His father, fearing that the child might in some way make
   himself appear ridiculous in the eyes of the prominent gentry
   who were to assemble at the same dining-table, gave him the
   parting injunction, “Watch your host and do just as he does.”

   Many men would get on in life more smoothly and attain success
   more rapidly and surely if they were attentive to the examples
   of their superiors. (Text.)

    (975)


                           EXAMPLE, FORCE OF

   Oberlin tried to persuade the peasants of his parish to abandon
   some of their old methods of agriculture; but the wiseacres
   smiled and shook their heads. What should a mere pastor know
   of such matters? Oberlin therefore resolved to appeal to their
   eyes instead of their ears. There were two public paths through
   his gardens, so he and his servant carefully brought the soil
   into a high state of cultivation; and when the neighbors walked
   along and marked how the pastor’s crops were twice as large as
   their own, and saw the many strange vegetables growing, they
   condescended to make inquiries as to how he did it. “No, it was
   not done by angels in the night! God intended men to live by the
   sweat of the brow, to use the reason which He had given them,
   and so improve themselves and others.”--EDWARD GILLIAT,
   “Heroes of Modern Crusades.”

    (976)


   =Example, Living=--See RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.


   =Example Nullifying Precept=--See INCONSISTENCY.


                          EXAMPLE OF PARENTS

   Carlyle, like Burns, came of peasant stock--strong, simple,
   Godfearing folk, whose influence in Carlyle’s later life is
   beyond calculation. Of his mother he says, “She was too mild
   and peaceful for the planet she lived in”; and of his father,
   a stone-mason, he writes, “Could I write my books as he built
   his houses, walk my way so manfully through this shadow world,
   and leave it with so little blame, it were more than all my
   hopes.”--WILLIAM J. LONG, “English Literature.”

    (977)


                           EXAMPLE, POWER OF

   A footman stole a casket containing ten thousand francs’ worth
   of jewels and concealed it in a hole in the ground in the Bois
   de Boulogne, Paris. When finally forced to confess, he declared
   that he had been so much imprest by the cunning of Sherlock
   Holmes and the skill of Moriarty as a criminal that he wished to
   imitate them.

    (978)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Some laborers were working in a lime-kiln in the Pyrenees. One
   of them, descending into the kiln to look after something which
   had gone wrong, fell down suffocated. A second man, hurrying
   to his assistance, also fell. A third, fourth and fifth man
   followed, meeting the same fate. Only one remained. When he was
   about to jump, a woman who stood watching the tragedy, clutched
   him by the clothes and held him back. Later, to a magistrate who
   was holding an inquest, when asked why he attempted to make the
   self-sacrifice, the lone survivor replied: “My comrades were
   dying; I felt driven to go.”

    (979)


   =Excellence=--See CHARACTER.


                       EXCELLENCE IS COMPARATIVE

   “What a world this would be,” says Christopher North, “were
   all its inhabitants to fiddle like Paganini, ride like Ducrow,
   discourse like Coleridge, and do everything else in a style
   of equal perfection!” Nay, good Christopher, the world would
   remain the same old dull commonplace world. Our standard
   would be raised, that is all. If every one rode like Ducrow,
   no one would stop a moment to look at Ducrow; if every one
   fiddled like Paganini, Paganini’s fiddle would be complained
   of by the neighbors as a nuisance; if every one discoursed
   like Coleridge, Coleridge would be voted an intolerable bore.
   We give our admiration to intellectual performances that are
   rare and difficult. The moment the rarity and the difficulty
   disappear our admiration also disappears, we seek fresh idols to
   worship,--_Lippincott’s Magazine._

    (980)


   =Excelling=--See BEST, MAKING THE; ENCOURAGEMENT.


   =Exceptional Men=--See CROWD, AND THE EXCEPTION.


   =Excess=--See STUDY OVERDONE.


   =Excess of Duty=--See OVERPLUS OF DUTY.


                         EXCLUSION FROM HEAVEN

A new story of Col. Robert J. Ingersoll is told by the Chicago
_Record-Herald_:

   Bishop Potter once lay sick, so sick that his life was despaired
   of, and even his most intimate friends were denied admittance to
   his bedside. One day, however, Colonel Ingersoll called. Bishop
   Potter, learning that Ingersoll was in the house, demanded,
   despite the protest of his physicians and nurses, that the
   distinguished agnostic be asked into the sick-room.

   “How is it, Bishop,” said Ingersoll after he had offered his
   condolences to the invalid, “that I am so highly favored when
   your other friends are not allowed to see you?”

   “Well, you see, Colonel,” answered the Bishop weakly, “I may
   not recover from this illness, and if I do not I have every
   assurance of seeing the others in the next world. I realized
   that if I wished to see you again, I must do it here.” (Text.)

    (981)


   =Exclusion of Evils=--See FENCING OUT ENEMIES.


   =Exclusion versus Expulsion=--See RESISTANCE.


                                EXCUSES

The biographer of “Father Morris,” an American preacher of some local
celebrity, tells of him this incident:

   He had noticed a falling off in his little village meeting for
   prayer. The first time he collected a tolerable audience, he
   took occasion to tell them something concerning the conference
   meeting of the disciples, after the resurrection. “But Thomas
   was not with them! Thomas not with them!” said the old man in a
   sorrowful voice. “Why, what could keep Thomas away? Perhaps,”
   said he, glancing at some of his auditors, “Thomas had got
   cold-hearted, and was afraid they would ask him to make the
   first prayer. Perhaps,” he continued, looking at some of the
   farmers, “he was afraid the roads were bad; or perhaps,” he
   added after a pause, “he thought a shower was coming on.” He
   went on, significantly summing up common excuses, and then with
   great simplicity and emotion he added: “But only think what
   Thomas lost, for in the middle of the meeting the Lord Jesus
   came and stood among them! Thomas was not with them when Jesus
   came.” (Text.)

    (982)

   See LAZINESS, EXCUSES FOR; REASONS VERSUS EXCUSES.


   =Exercise and Food=--See FOOD AND EXERCISE.


                       EXERCISE PROLONGING LIFE

   William Cullen Bryant kept himself in a healthy bodily condition
   up to an extreme old age by taking long daily walks, and by
   swinging a chair, instead of Indian clubs, around his head each
   morning and evening. Bancroft, the historian, kept mind and
   body in tune by daily horseback exercise, while Mr. Gladstone
   was able at an advanced age to perform enormous mental work by
   the physical stamina which he maintained by cutting down trees
   in his park. These are only a few out of a large number of
   instances that might be cited, all going to show that health
   and life may be maintained and the mental powers continued
   unimpaired through old age if the obvious needs of the body are
   not neglected.--Boston _Herald_.


                          EXERCISE, SPIRITUAL

   A new pastor was met by one of his parishioners who was fat
   and of many years, who said to the pastor: “You must feed the
   sheep.” Whereupon the pastor replied: “My dear old man, you do
   not need food, you need exercise.”

    (984)


                       EXERCISE VERSUS MEDICINE

   Boerhaave, the famous physician, declared that a man was
   more likely to get well by climbing a tree than by drinking
   a decoction made of its leaves! That is, he thought exercise
   better than medicine.--London _Hospital_.

    (985)


   =Exertion=--See DIFFICULTIES, OVERCOMING.


   =Exhaustion by Swallowing=--See EARLY PROMISE.


                               EXORCISM

Mr. Sconten, writing from Kambui, East Central Africa, was an
eye-witness of the following treatment for malarial fever of a lad and
a girl, by a native medicine doctor:

   A hole in the ground was lined with banana-leaves and some water
   brought. Part of the water was poured on the ground beside the
   patients, and the rest was poured into the hole. The intestines
   of a sheep were emptied of their filth and the foreheads and
   palms of the sufferers and their relations smeared with it. The
   lad and girl were tied together by the feet with a vine, while
   the man mixed some colored powders in the water. The stomach of
   the sheep was then brought, and through a hole in the side the
   patients were made to suck in the fluid contents, and cast the
   rest into the colored water. Then, taking a bunch of herbs, the
   doctor lifted a good portion of the concoction and placed it in
   the mouth of each patient with a singsong monotone, saying: “By
   this I take away all the evil effects of whatever is troubling
   you, the attacks of evil spirits, whatever poison you may have
   eaten, whatever harm has been inflicted upon you by blacksmiths,
   whatever evil has come to you in the path, whatever disease
   has been brought upon you through your friends, whatever has
   been inflicted upon you by your enemies, and all disease with
   which God has afflicted you.” This was not all that he said,
   and he repeated it three times, all the while dipping from the
   nauseating mixture and putting it into the patients’ mouths. A
   foot of the sheep was then dipt into the remaining fluid and the
   ground sprinkled all around them, and their bodies sprinkled.
   Lastly, noses, thumbs and great toes were painted with white
   paint and they were untied, and told to go and get well. Both
   patients were in a dying condition the next day, while the
   medicine-man was feasting upon the good flesh of the slaughtered
   sheep.

    (986)

       *       *       *       *       *

   When the first missionaries visited Marsovan, Turkey, the old
   Armenian church-members were Christians in little more than
   name. Their beliefs were a mixture of superstitions with a
   suggestion of a Christian origin. They feared the evil eye, and
   wore charms to break its power. They put branches of a thorny
   plant over their chimneys in the form of a cross to prevent
   witches from coming down and strangling their little children.
   They visited the graves of saints and offered prayers for relief
   from sickness, tying a rag on a near-by bush with the hope of
   returning home leaving their disease tied to the holy spot.

    (987)

   See BIRTH CEREMONIES; DEMONOLOGY.


                             EXPECTORATING

The father of President Hadley, of Yale, is reported to have said to
certain members of one of his Greek classes who were guilty of a filthy
habit:

   Gentlemen, those of you who expect to rate high in my esteem
   must not expectorate on the floor. This matter of expectoration
   is a very serious problem. If you do it in China, you should
   not do so toward the north. In certain sections of Africa, you
   may, if you like, expectorate upon a person, because in that
   particular language, the Benga, the word for bless and spit are
   precisely the same. It is the way in which you bless a person.
   But one must know the customs; for there are few places where
   men deem themselves blest when spit upon, no matter how sincere
   may be the missionary’s desire to bless everybody.--H. P.
   BEACH, “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (988)


   =Expense Account=--See BALANCE, A LOOSE.


                              EXPERIENCE

   “I guess my father must have been a pretty bad boy,” said one
   youngster.

   “Why?” inquired the other.

   “Because he knows exactly what questions to ask when he wants to
   know what I have been doing.” (Text.)

    (989)

       *       *       *       *       *

   I once met a veteran sailor, one of the old Hull and Decatur
   breed, who had been to sea forty years, and he told me he
   had never known a mutiny on board ship where the captain had
   risen from before the mast, implying that such an officer had
   acquired experience, and knew how to manage men as well as
   vessels.--JAMES T. FIELDS.

    (990)

       *       *       *       *       *

It is better to be singed by the flame and suffer than not to know the
experiences of living deeply. This seems to be the lesson in Helen A.
Saxon’s verse below:

    Hast singed thy pretty wings, poor moth?
    Fret not; some moths there be
    That wander all the weary night
    Longing in vain to see
    The light.

    Hast touched the scorching flame, poor heart?
    Grieve not; some hearts exist
    That know not, grow not to be strong,
    And weep not, having missed
    The song.

    --_The Reader._

    (991)

   See CONFIDENCE; FAMILIARITY; LIFE, THE WINGED.


                       EXPERIENCE A HARD TEACHER

   Everything in the Eskimo dress has a reason for its existence.
   The members of Captain Amundsen’s expeditions had become
   accustomed to the Eskimo dress and had adopted it, but many of
   them thought it ridiculous for grown-up men to go about wearing
   fringe to their clothes, so they cut it off. The captain had
   his scruples about this, as he had already learned that most
   things in the Eskimo’s clothing and other arrangements had their
   distinct meaning and purpose, so he allowed the fringe to remain
   on his garments in the face of ridicule. One bright, sunny day
   the anovaks, a variety of tunic reaching below the knee, made of
   deerskin, from which the fringe had been cut off, began to curl
   up, and if the fringe had not been put on again quickly, they
   would soon have looked like mere shreds.

   There is a purpose in every ordinance and ceremony of the
   Church. Observance of established forms is for the upbuilding of
   faith in the believer. (Text.)

    (992)


                         EXPERIENCE AND BIBLE

   As the finger feels the smart when it touches the flame that
   stands airily quivering in its golden invitation, so the will
   which first touches a lie or a lust is conscious of a pang. Not
   outward in the Word, but inward in its life, is this warning
   against vice. When afterward it reads and meditates the Word,
   it finds symbols interpreted, precepts enforced, admonitions
   illumined, by this its prior inward experience.--RICHARD S.
   STORRS.

    (993)


   =Experience as Proof=--See TESTS, PERSONAL.


                          EXPERIENCE DECISIVE

   A physician once remarked to S. H. Hadley, after having listened
   to his earnest appeals to drunkards to come to Jesus, “You would
   not talk to those men like that if you had ever seen inside a
   drunkard’s stomach.” “But I had a drunkard’s stomach,” quickly
   responded Mr. Hadley, “and Jesus saved me.”

    (994)


   =Experience, Spiritual=--See SPIRITUAL PERTURBATION.


                      EXPERIENCE TESTING THEOLOGY

   As for Wesley, an unrelenting thoroughness marked at every stage
   his temper in religion. He would have no uncertainties, no
   easy and soft illusions. Religion as a divine gift, as a human
   experience, was something definite. No intermediate stage was
   thinkable. And with a wise--but almost unconscious--instinct
   he put his theology to the one final test. He cast it into
   the alembic of experience. He tried it by the challenge of
   life; of its power to color and shape life. He spent the next
   thirteen years in that process, trying his creed with infinite
   courage, with transparent sincerity, and often with toil and
   suffering, by the rough acid of life, till at last he reached
   that conception of Christ and His gospel which lifted his
   spirit up to dazzling heights of gladness and power.--W. H.
   FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (995)

   See THEOLOGY SHAPED BY EXPERIENCE.


                     EXPERIENCE THE BEST ARGUMENT

William Duncan, who later became “The Apostle of Alaska,” when a young
man newly converted, encountered an aged commercial traveler, a
well-known agnostic, but a stranger to young Duncan, and a battle royal
of argument on religion ensued.

   The disciple of Taine and Voltaire was getting the better of
   the discussion with the young novice, when, leaping to his feet
   and looking his adversary squarely in the eye, Duncan said:
   “Sir, you are twice my age. I will ask you on your honor as a
   gentleman to answer me honestly this question: Here I am a young
   man. I have grown up in the Christian faith, and am happy in it.
   Would you advise me to give it all up and come over to where
   you stand, without God, without faith, and without hope?” “No,
   young man,” said the old agnostic; “when you put it that way, I
   can not advise you to drop your religion and faith. Keep them
   and be happy.” Duncan retorted: “Don’t you see you are standing
   on a rotten bridge that will break down, while I am standing on
   a solid bridge? Your heart belies your head, and you admit that
   your arguments are empty words.” (Text.)

    (996)


   =Experience, The Test of=--See PROOF BY EXPERIENCE.


                         EXPERIENCE, VALUE OF

   The president of the London Alpine Club said no man was ever
   lost on the Alps who had properly prepared himself and knew how
   to ascend them, and when I quoted to him the list of guides who
   had fallen into crevices and been killed, he quoted back to me
   a certain passage of Scripture wherein the fate of blind guides
   and those they lead is set forth in unmistakable terms. “Choose
   for your guides,” said he, “the hardy men who have learned their
   business thoroughly; who have been chamois-hunters from their
   youth; who have lived on these mountains from their birth,
   and to whom these snows and these rocks and the clouds speak
   a language which they can understand, and then accidents are
   impossible.” (Text.)--JAMES T. FIELDS.

    (997)


   =Experience versus Theory=--See CRITICISM.


                              EXPERIMENT

Our most valuable successes usually are achieved on the principle
followed by this dog:

   In his “Introduction to Comparative Psychology” (1894), Dr.
   Lloyd Morgan told the story of his dog’s attempts to bring a
   hooked walking-stick through a narrow gap in a fence. The dog
   “tried” all possible methods of pulling the stick through the
   fence. Most of the attempts showed themselves to be “errors.”
   But the dog tried again and again, until he finally succeeded.
   He worked by the method of trial and error. (Text.)

    (998)

       *       *       *       *       *

We doubt many theories that are recorded by others, but when we
see them proved for ourselves we doubt no longer. A writer, after
describing Franklin’s first disappointment in investigating the action
of oil on water, records his later experiments:

   Franklin investigated the subject, and the results of his
   experiments, made upon a pond on Clapham Common, were
   communicated to the Royal Society. He states that, after
   dropping a little oil on the water, “I saw it spread itself
   with surprizing swiftness upon the surface, but the effect of
   smoothing the waves was not produced; for I had applied it first
   upon the leeward side of the pond, where the waves were largest,
   and the wind drove my oil back upon the shore. I then went to
   the windward side, where they began to form; and there the
   oil, tho not more than a teaspoonful, produced an instant calm
   over a space several yards square, which spread amazingly, and
   extended itself gradually till it reached the lee side, making
   all that quarter of the pond (perhaps half an acre) as smooth as
   a looking-glass.”

    (999)

       *       *       *       *       *

About all of the great enterprises of mankind are built on earlier
experiments that seemed to fail. Hiram Maxim and S. P. Langley each
spent laborious years constructing flying-machines that would not fly.
Yet those who later succeeded made use of all the important devices
that these earlier experimenters had invented.

   Some years since it was seen that by damming, controlling,
   and releasing the waters of the Colorado River in southern
   California and Mexico a vast tract of land, which was hot, arid,
   and uninhabitable, might become a fertile valley, giving homes
   and sustenance to millions. The opportunity was great, the power
   to be controlled and regulated was as great as the opportunity,
   but a failure came in the mind and executive ability of the men
   who were drawn to this great task. The waters escaped their
   control, and, where they intended to irrigate flowering gardens
   and fruitful plantations, they let loose a devastating flood,
   which burst all barriers, and threatened to establish in place
   of the desert an inland sea. In time the intellect of man solved
   the problem, met the opportunity with due achievement, and now
   the original promise is in the way of fulfilment. (Text.)

    (1000)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The insect (a butterfly) flutters its wings as if to test their
   power before committing itself to the air; and frequently,
   after only a few seconds spent in this preparatory exercise,
   off it darts with astonishing rapidity. But others seem far
   more cautious. They vibrate their wings, sometimes with such
   rapidity that they are lost in a kind of mist, and with such
   power that their bodies would be carried suddenly into the
   air were they not firmly anchored by three pairs of hooked
   claws. Then, continuing the rapid vibration, they move slowly
   along, always holding on firmly by one or more legs, as if to
   still further satisfy themselves concerning the efficiency
   of their wings. Then they venture on a few short trial trips
   from one neighboring object to another, and at last gain
   sufficient confidence for a long voyage.--W. FURNEAUX,
   “Butterflies and Moths.”

    (1001)


   =Experiment as Proof=--See COMPROMISES IN GRAVITIES.


   =Experimentation=--See SUCCESS BY EXPERIMENTATION.


                           EXPERT ASSISTANCE

It is usually better to take advantage of the assistance of some one
who knows than to waste effort on that which is out of our province of
activity.

   A lady missionary was about to leave London for India. She had
   been provided with trunks considered ample for the accommodation
   of all her belongings, but even with the kind help of all the
   members of her family, she could not get them into the space.
   Many were left over. Repeated trials were made in vain. The
   thought occurred to send for a professional packer. The expert,
   in a short time, had everything neatly deposited in the trunks.

    (1002)


   =Experts, Value of=--See EDUCATION, HIGHER.


   =Explanation, The Easy=--See SIMPLICITY AND TRUTH.


                               EXPOSURE

The ways in which evil deeds are brought to light often startle the
culprit who thought he could cunningly hide his guilt.

   At a dinner-party a young lady, noticing a beautiful silver
   spoon lying near her, yielded to the temptation to secrete it
   at an opportune moment when no one observed her. Once securely
   hidden in the folds of one of her garments, she felt herself
   very clever, and had no fear of the possibility of detection.
   After dinner an exhibition of the remarkable properties of
   X-rays was given, and the lady was asked to subject herself
   to their influence. In an unguarded moment she consented,
   forgetting that those searching rays could reveal her shame.
   They were focused upon her, and there, in sight of all the
   party, was revealed the stolen spoon. (Text.)

    (1003)


   =Expression of Grief Approved=--See GRIEF, EXPRESSING.


   =Expulsion of Sin=--See REDEMPTION FROM EVIL.


                             EXTERMINATION

   Texas and other Southern States suffered for years losses of
   millions in the cattle industry from a type of splenic fever,
   commonly called Texas fever. Finally, this fever began to be
   carried into the North by Southern cattle shipped there, with
   the result that rigid quarantines were established against
   the South, which practically put the Southern cattle men out
   of business for a large part of each year, and caused still
   further enormous losses. Furthermore, this fever prevented the
   importation into the far Southern States of fine breeds of
   cattle with which to breed up the poor-grade herds. In Texas
   practically every fine bull or cow imported from the North
   contracted this fever, and seventy-five per cent of them died.

   The experts of the Department of Agriculture, working with the
   professors of the University of Missouri and of the Agricultural
   College of Texas, discovered that this fever was transmitted
   solely through the cattle-tick, which carried the germs from
   sick cattle and implanted them in well cattle when sucking
   their blood. An economical method of ridding cattle of ticks
   before shipping, by a process of dipping, removed all danger
   to Northern cattle from Southern shipments, and the costly
   quarantine handicap was removed or greatly mitigated.

   In the past three years a practical and economical method of
   entirely exterminating these ticks has been worked out and
   tested by our scientists, and the ticks have already been
   exterminated over nearly 64,000 square miles, an area larger
   than the State of Georgia, and it is only a matter of a few
   years and wider diffusion of education when the cattle-tick
   will be entirely exterminated. When we consider that the losses
   of all kinds from cattle-ticks in the South and Southwest
   were estimated at $40,000,000 per year, we can see what these
   scientific discoveries mean for us.--New York _Evening
   Post_.

    (1004)


                       EXTRAVAGANCE, CENSURABLE

A newspaper writer gives this picture of an occurrence in New York:

   On what proved to be the coldest night of the year, a man, said
   to represent a brand of wine he is anxious to export, engaged
   the largest stage in the world from midnight until the next noon
   and gave an entertainment in honor of an elephant, to which were
   bidden the men and women whose lights shine mostly on the Great
   White Way.

   These people were requested to come drest as “rubes,” in the
   hope of making themselves as ridiculous as possible. But that
   was unnecessary, as the report of their antics while the wine,
   represented by their host, flowed with increasing freedom, did
   for them what no amount of caricature in dress could accomplish.

   Out in the cold of this same freezing night there is a
   bread-line. Stationed at various places in this city are
   municipal free lodging-houses. To these flocked the army of
   the hungry and homeless, seeking for food and shelter from the
   bitter cold.

On the one hand, wanton extravagance; on the other, biting poverty. It
ought to be the province of Christianity to abolish both of these for
their mutual good. (Text.)

    (1005)


                         EXTRAVAGANCE, MODERN

   Two hundred and sixty dollars were paid this season for a hat!
   I know this to be true, because I saw the hat and the woman who
   bought it, and I was told the price. What was it? A handful of
   straw, a wisp of tulle, and a spray of feather. Two hundred and
   sixty dollars!

   Of course, this is not to be taken as an average price, even
   among the very rich. But the averages, as well as the single,
   instances of modern extravagance are startling. Fifteen years
   ago twenty-five dollars--thirty at the outside--would have
   bought the most elaborate bonnet in the most expensive shopping
   center of the world, New York. To-day the Fifth Avenue shops are
   asking thirty dollars for the plainest domestic toque or shade
   hat, and have shelves full of French importations at prices
   ranging from $100 to $175. The ten-dollar “trimmed” sailor hat
   used to be worn with serge dresses; the mull hats costing five
   dollars; the big rough garden hats at about the same price;
   the leghorns that used to run as high as fifteen, even twenty
   dollars, to-day have been replaced by thirty-dollar round hats,
   fifty-dollar picture hats, fifty-dollar lingerie hats, and
   hand-made straws running into the three numerals.--EMILY
   POST, _Everybody’s Magazine_.

    (1006)


                           EXTREMITY, GOD IN

    In the far, forgotten lands,
    By the world’s last gulf of night,
    Gasps a naked human soul,
    Writhing up and falling back,
    Screaming for a God who cares.

    In the far, forgotten lands,
    By the world’s last gulf of night,
    Batlike creatures vex the gloom
    And whimper as they shudder by:
    “Is there any God who cares?”

    In the far, forgotten lands,
    By the world’s last gulf of night,
    Walks the cross-stained Nazarene,
    Searching ever for his own
    On the crumbling edge of hell.

    In the far, forgotten lands,
    By the world’s last gulf of night,
    There He wanders, all alone,
    Dragging bleeding hearts from hell
    With the whisper: “God does care!”

    --_The Independent._

    (1007)


                          EXTREMITY NOT FINAL

   Sidney Lanier once, at least, in dire extremity, while stricken
   with a mortal malady, and almost lacking subsistence for his
   family in this wealthy city (Baltimore), sent forth a cry of
   agony that came perilously near to surrender of faith. He rose
   from his abysmal despair to make another valiant effort at the
   last, and never afterward questioned the goodness of God even in
   hours of awful discouragement. And so he died, feeling that all
   would be well with him and those he loved stronger than death.
   Ye who are about to abandon the tumultuous and uneven contest,
   think of this example, look to heaven and make another honest,
   prayerful effort for relief!--Baltimore _American_.

    (1008)


   =Eye Measuring=--See TRAINING.


                             EYE, THE EVIL

   The power exerted by the human eye over man and animals is well
   known, and the evil use of such influence is widely recognized.
   This maleficent power is called the “evil eye,” and the belief
   in its operation seems never to have been absent in any land.
   This does not mean the undoubted influence exerted by the eye,
   as in mesmerism, but a sort of noxious influence proceeding
   from the eye, with or without the connivance of the owner of
   the organ. Intelligence of a belief in this strange power comes
   to us from the cradle lands of the East, at an unknown period
   of history. Chaldean cylinders of clay dug up on the banks of
   the Euphrates contain magical formula against it. In Assyria,
   eight centuries before Christ, men appealed to their gods in
   long formulated prayers against possessors of the evil eye, who
   are declared the worst of men. Egyptian incantations against
   the sorcerer, of an early date, have come down to us. In one
   of these the sun is addrest thus: “O, thou whose soul is in
   the pupil of the eye.” An ancient Vedaic hymn to Agni invokes
   Indra against the evil eye. The eye of the Brahman was thought
   so powerful that he was forbidden, when satisfying the wants
   of nature, to look at the sun, the moon, the stars, water,
   or trees, lest he should bewitch them. The Persian Vendidad
   contains prayers and rites to ward off the effects of the
   evil eye. Ahriman subdued evil spirits by the power of his
   glance.--St. Louis _Globe-Democrat_.

    (1009)


   =Eye, The Human=--See DESIGN IN NATURE.


                          EYE, THE SEARCHING

   In a poem by Victor Hugo, Cain is represented as walking thirty
   days and nights after the murder of his brother Abel until he
   reaches the shores of the sea. “Let us stop here,” he says; but
   as he sits down his face turns pale. He has seen in the mournful
   sky the searching eye. His sons, filled with awe, try to erect
   barriers between him and the Eye--a tent, then a wall of iron,
   then a tower and a city--but all is in vain. “I see the Eye,”
   still cries the unhappy man. At last they dig a tomb and the
   father is put into it. But

    “Tho overhead they closed the awful vault,
    The Eye was in the tomb and looked on Cain.” (Text.)

    (1010)


   =Eye, The Trained=--See TRAINING.


                               EYES, THE

There are men who are like the eye pupils--larger in the shadow.
Bring them out into the bright light and they shrink to their real
proportions.

   Hang a small looking-glass on the wall immediately below a
   gas-bracket. Carefully examine the colored portion of either of
   your eyes by looking at the image formed in the glass, and note
   particularly the extent of the pupil’s opening. Now, turning the
   light down to the smallest amount that will still permit you
   to see the pupil, note the wonderful manner in which the pupil
   dilates or increases in diameter. Then turn the light up and
   observe how the pupil contracts; and then remember the wonderful
   optical instruments you possess and be careful you do not abuse
   them, for they are the only eyes you will ever get.--EDWIN
   J. HOUSTON, “The Wonder Book of Light.”

    (1011)


   =Eyesores, Relieved of=--See UNLOADING THE USELESS.




                                   F


                           FACE, AN INVITING

This is from _The Boys’ World_:

   A poor fellow in trouble, a stranger in a big city, and sick and
   destitute, passed aimlessly along the street, wondering what
   to do and where to go. Passing an office window, he looked up
   and caught sight of a man’s face. “I’ll go in there and speak
   to him--he looks so kind,” was the instant resolve. He went and
   found a friend indeed, whose kindness brought the chance to help
   himself, which the young man never forgot, and afterward sought
   to repay.

   “He looks so kind.” Could there be a higher compliment? The
   man’s face was an open invitation to come in and confide and get
   help.

   Without speaking a word he gave this invitation, which led to so
   much for the friendless stranger.

   But do you suppose that this kind look grew in a night or a
   day or a week? Can a fine steel-engraving be finished in a few
   hours? It takes line by line, day after day. Things worth while
   are not of instantaneous accomplishment. Now think of it. When
   is the best time to begin, if the art of looking pleasant and
   the possession of a kind face be achieved?

    (1012)


   =Face Shows the Man=--See COUNTENANCE, GRACE IN THE.


   =Face, The Benignant=--See COUNTENANCE, GRACE IN THE.


                    FACE, THE, REVEALING THE GOSPEL

   When Margaret Andrews was twenty-five, she received what she
   thought was a call to the foreign mission field. Her parents,
   altho they at first tried to dissuade her, put no obstacle in
   the way of her hopes, and, full of eagerness, she began training
   at a school in another city. One day, says the _California
   Advocate_, she received a telegram. Her mother had met with
   an accident, just how serious could not at once be known.
   Margaret packed her books and took the first train home,
   expecting to return in a few weeks. Long before the weeks had
   passed she knew that her dream must be given up. Her mother
   would never be able to do anything again, and Margaret, instead
   of making her journey to strange lands, saw herself shut in to
   the duties of housekeeper and nurse.

   For a year or two she bore her disappointment in silence; then
   she went to her pastor with it. The pastor was an old man, who
   had known Margaret all her life. He looked at her steadily for
   a moment. Then he said slowly, “You are living in a city of two
   hundred thousand people. Isn’t there need enough about you to
   fill your life?”

   “Oh, yes,” the girl answered, “and I could give up the foreign
   field. It isn’t that. But I haven’t time to do anything, not
   even to take a mission-class, and to see so much work waiting,
   and be able to do nothing--”

   “Margaret,” the old minister said, “come here.”

   The girl followed him to the next room, where a mirror hung
   between the windows. Her reflection, pale and unhappy, faced her
   wearily.

   “All up and down the streets,” the old minister said, “in the
   cars, the markets, the stores, there are people starving for
   the bread of life. The church can not reach them--they will not
   enter a church. Books can not help them--many of them never open
   a book. There is but one way that they can ever read the gospel
   of hope, of joy, of courage, and that is in the faces of men and
   women.

   “Two years ago a woman who has known deep trouble came to me one
   day, and asked your name. ‘I wanted to tell her,’ she said, ‘how
   much good her happy face did me, but I was afraid that she would
   think it was presuming on the part of an utter stranger. Some
   day, perhaps, you will tell her for me.’ Margaret, my child,
   look in the glass and tell me if the face you see there has
   anything to give to the souls that are hungry for joy--and they
   are more than any of us realize--who, unknown to themselves, are
   hungering for righteousness. Do you think that woman, if she
   were to meet you now, would say what she said two years ago?”

   The girl gave one glance and then turned away, her cheeks
   crimson with shame. It was hard to answer, but she was no
   coward. She looked up into her old friend’s grave eyes.

   “Thank you,” she said; “I will try to learn my lesson and accept
   my mission--to the streets.” (Text.)

    (1013)


                             FACING RIGHT

   When the Jews, exiled from the Holy Land, died afar off among
   the pagans and the persecutors, they had themselves laid in
   their tombs, with their faces turned toward Jerusalem! If your
   strength betrays you, if it is not for you, during life, to
   enter into perfect peace, to be delivered from certain enemies
   of the soul, from certain humiliating miseries that set your
   best will at defiance, if you must fall in the mêlée, fall at
   least with your face turned toward Jerusalem.--CHARLES
   WAGNER, “The Gospel of Life.”

    (1014)


                            FACTS, IGNORING

Thomas Reed Bridges, D.D., says:

   Macaulay tells the story of a young scientist in India who
   became possest of a microscope. Beneath it he placed a drop
   of water from the Ganges. This is, as you know, the sacred
   river of India. He looked and beheld an infinite pollution.
   Then in his rage he broke the microscope in pieces and threw
   it from him. The Ganges ran on carrying its infection to the
   sea, but he would not see it. Foolish, you say. But not more
   foolish than the way in which many people close their eyes to
   the facts of their own life. They have not the courage to look
   at the truth. They prefer to live all their days in a fool’s
   paradise. In their sincerest moments there is some insincerity.
   Their self-examination is nothing more than self-defense. It is
   possible to put a favorable construction upon almost any action
   and this men do when dealing with themselves.

    (1015)


                           FACTS, RELIGIOUS

Dr. Chas. F. Aked said in a recent sermon, concerning the multiplicity
of modern faiths and fads:

   I have not been in this country twenty months yet, but I am
   quite certain that there have been twenty new gospels launched
   upon an astonished public during that time. I remember one that
   was to take possession of the church to win the world to Christ
   inside of the next twelve months. The publisher sent me a copy
   of the book for my opinion, and I wrote him that I did not care
   two straws about that sort of thing, but before the ink in my
   signature was dry a friend called on me and I asked him how Dr.
   So and So’s scheme was getting on. “Oh,” he said, “he is about
   through with it.”

   I said, “Why I have only just got his book from the publisher.”
   “That does not make any difference,” said my friend. “But,” I
   said, “how can he have got through with it already?” He said,
   “Have not you been here long enough to know how easily we take a
   thing up and how much more easily we drop it again?” (Text.)

New gospels come and go, but there is one gospel that abides.

    (1016)


   =Failings of Christians=--See CYNIC REBUKED.


                                FAILURE

   Caligula once fitted out a fleet at great expense, as if to
   conquer Greece or to accomplish some other great undertaking,
   but the ships returned laden with pebbles and cockleshells, only
   to receive the scorn of all.

So many a life that is well equipped and has glorious opportunities
flattens out into insipid nothingness.

    (1017)

   See DEFEAT; NEGLECT; SUCCESS IN
   FAILURE; SORROW FOR A LOST CAUSE.


                      FAILURE LEADING TO SUCCESS

It is part of the compensation of life that nearly every dark cloud of
disaster or disappointment has a fringe of light under it. An instance
of this is seen in the career of Senator Beveridge:

   It was a joke that sent United States Senator Beveridge, of
   Indiana, into public life instead of into the army. He took the
   competitive examination, but at a critical moment he laughed at
   another boy’s sportive remark and failed to pass by the smallest
   fraction. We are told by one chronicler that young Beveridge was
   so badly upset when the news reached him on the street that he
   had failed to pass that his distress was mirrored on his face so
   plainly that a passing acquaintance stopt to ask him the cause,
   and was himself so touched that he forthwith offered to advance
   him the money necessary to start him in college.

    (1018)


   =Failure Made a Success=--See SAGACITY SUPPLEMENTING SCIENCE.


                         FAILURE ONLY SEEMING

These cheering lines are from _Success_:

    There is no failure. If we could but see
    Beyond the battle-line; if we could be
    Where battle-smoke does ne’er becloud the eye,
    Then we should know that where these prostrate lie
    Accoutered in habiliments of death,
    Sweet Freedom’s radiant form has drawn new breath--
    The breath of life which they so nobly gave
    Shall swell anew above the lowly grave,
    And give new life and hope to hearts that beat
    Like battle-drums that never sound retreat.

    (1019)


                    FAILURE TRANSFORMED TO SUCCESS

   A captain’s little son had tried all day to make a boat, but at
   night he had only succeeded in misshaping the wood. His father
   saw the tears on the sleeping lad’s face, and took up the wood
   and with the deft skill of experience soon changed the shapeless
   block into a beautiful little boat. Then, leaving it on the
   table by his son’s bed, he lay down to sleep. When morning
   dawned and the boy saw the boat, so perfect in its shape and
   style, he marveled how his own failure had been turned into
   success. Will not God take our endeavors, poor and faulty tho
   they be, and change them into triumphs? Let us do our best and
   leave our work at nightfall, awaiting His hand to complete it.
   (Text.)

    (1020)


   =Fairness=--See JUSTICE.


                                 FAITH

   The child lying at night in its little crib by its mother’s side
   cries out because of the darkness its eyes can not penetrate,
   and wants to get up. The mother says, “Lie still and wait till
   daylight, child.” And the little one asks, “When will that be?”
   The mother says, “It will be daylight after a while,” and taking
   the tiny hand in hers the restless child calmly drops into
   peaceful slumber, confident that at morning’s dawn light will
   come. So with God’s grown-up children. Amid the impenetrable
   gloom of limited knowledge we grow restless and uneasy because
   we can not see Him face to face, but by faith, putting our hands
   in His, we may confidently expect the dawning. (Text.)

    (1021)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The Norwegian missionary Braadvedt once asked his native Zulu
   teacher, “What is faith and what is unbelief?”

   The Christian Zulu replied, “In Zululand strong men carry people
   over the rivers when the water is high. Before these men go
   through the river they tell those whom they carry to take a
   firm hold. Those who have confidence in the carrier and obey
   him safely reach the other side, but those who lose confidence
   and let go their hold, perish in the water. That is faith and
   unbelief. To have faith means to take hold of Christ and His
   Word, to lack faith means to let go Christ and His Word.”

    (1022)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A man stood upon a height, overlooking an estuary of the sea.
   On the opposite shore was a bold headland. Wishing to cross
   thither, he cast about to find a way, but the abyss of water
   lay between. Then One who stood between him said: “The bridge
   is safe; advance and fear not.” “But I see no bridge,” said the
   traveler. “Take this glass and look,” said the One who stood at
   his side. And the man took it and looked, and lo! a bridge was
   spanning the great gulf of waters. Yet he saw but a small part
   of that end that was nearest. He went forward courageously,
   and, as he advanced, the bridge stretched out before him, tho
   the farther end was still obscured. He marveled much at this
   wonder, and inquired the reason. “This glass,” exclaimed the One
   who had led him to look, “is Faith; it gives spiritual vision
   and reveals that which is hid from the eye of flesh.” Advancing
   more confidently, he saw the bridge now more clearly, as its
   proportions were gradually disclosed. And he went on his way
   across, singing and rejoicing, for he was glad at heart. (Text.)

    (1023)

       *       *       *       *       *

An English writer tells this incident and draws from it the lessons
that follow:

   The other day I was passing through a London square, and
   noticed a little girl feeding some pigeons. Quite a number were
   fluttering around her, some getting more, some less, of what she
   had to give them. But one, bolder than the rest, had settled on
   her wrist, and was getting his supply direct from the basin she
   was holding in her hand. Needless to say, that pigeon got the
   most of all.

   Instinctively I thought of the verse: “Let us come boldly unto
   the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to
   help in time of need” (Heb. 4:16). But there was something else
   besides boldness that the bird possest; altho only a pigeon,
   it certainly showed faith in the good will of the little girl.
   Whether she had been there on the same errand before I can not
   say, as I very seldom pass that way; but it was evident that it
   regarded her as a child to be trusted, and one who would not
   do a feathered friend any harm. Thus, while its companions got
   comparatively little, this one, by reason of its faith combined
   with boldness, received all it could appropriate in the time.
   It had no need to plead with the pathetic look of its eye; it
   simply realized its need, and recognizing the means of supplying
   it, gladly availed itself of it.

    (1024)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Faith is the standing-ground of the hopeful, the conviction of
   facts unseen. Sam Jones used to illustrate it in this way. Out
   West they have a place for watering cattle where the animals
   have to mount a platform to reach the troughs. As they step upon
   the platform their weight presses a lever, and this throws the
   water into the troughs. They have to get on the platform through
   faith, and this act provides the water. The steer that slips
   round to the barnyard and looks into the trough will find it
   dry, for it needs his weight on the platform to force the water
   up. If you slide back you will find life barren and dry, but
   if you step upon the platform of full assurance in God’s Word,
   blessings will flow abundantly.

    (1025)

       *       *       *       *       *

Herman S. Reichard is the author of this:

            I dreamed a dream
    Of white-robed Faith; with words of cheer and love
    She took me by the hand and led me on;
    And by some magic art smoothed out the way
    Until my lagging zeal was fired anew
    By future visions of unmeasured bliss.
    I saw beyond the wintry cold and snow
    The days of springtime, full of flowers and song
    To greet and satisfy the longing heart.

    (1026)

       *       *       *       *       *

The following incident is related of Rev. John Wilkinson and his
Mildmay (London) Mission to the Jews:

   On one occasion two American gentlemen sat at Mr. Wilkinson’s
   breakfast-table and noted his opening of letters which brought
   God’s supply for the day. “This is all very well, so far,” said
   one of the gentlemen, “but what would you do, Mr. Wilkinson, if
   one morning the expected supply did not come?” The answer is
   clear in my memory, “That can only happen, sir, when God dies.”
   (Text.)

    (1027)

       *       *       *       *       *

William J. Long, in “English Literature,” writes thus of Samuel Johnson:

   Since the man’s work fails to account for his leadership and
   influence, we examine his personality; and here everything is
   interesting. Because of a few oft-quoted passages from Boswell’s
   biography, Johnson appears to us as an eccentric bear, who
   amuses us by his growlings and clumsy antics. But there is
   another Johnson, a brave, patient, kindly, religious soul, who,
   as Goldsmith said, had “nothing of the bear but his skin”; a man
   who battled like a hero against poverty and pain and melancholy
   and the awful fear of death, and who overcame them manfully.
   “That trouble passed away; so will this,” sang the sorrowing
   Deor in the first old Anglo-Saxon lyric; and that expresses
   the great and suffering spirit of Johnson, who in the face of
   enormous obstacles never lost faith in God or in himself.

    (1028)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In the self-appointed task of educating the public to an
   appreciation of the best in music, Mr. Theodore Thomas had a
   long and up-hill struggle which would have broken a weaker man.
   During those days he once said to an intimate friend, says the
   New York _Herald_:

   “I have gone without food longer than I should, I have walked
   when I could not afford to ride, I have even played when my
   hands were cold, but I shall succeed, for I shall never give
   up my belief that at last the people will come to me, and my
   concerts will be crowded. I have undying faith in the latent
   musical appreciation of the American public.” (Text.)

    (1029)

       *       *       *       *       *

   One day, at a little prayer-meeting, our deacon, Yi Chun
   Ho, startled the Koreans, as well as the missionary, by the
   suggestion that the natives should put up the new church without
   foreign aid. I at once said: “You have raised twenty yen, and
   believed that you had done all you could; it will take almost
   one thousand yen to put up the church. Can you do it?” I felt
   strongly rebuked by his quiet reply: “We ask such questions
   as ‘Can you do it?’ about men’s work, but not about God’s
   work.”--PIERSON, “The Miracles of Missions.”

    (1030)

   See ACHIEVEMENT; GUIDANCE, GOD’S; TRIUMPH IN DEATH.


                           FAITH, A CHILD’S

   A child’s faith and good will are manifested in connection with
   his idea of a personal, intelligent power in the world. In the
   latter part of his fourth year, a little boy was awakened one
   night by a violent thunder-storm. He was much frightened, and
   called to his mother with trembling voice, “Mama, God won’t let
   the thunder hurt us, will He?” When assured that the lightning
   was governed by God’s laws, and that there was little or no
   danger, he quieted down and slept soundly during the rest of
   the storm. So far as was known, this child had never been told
   that God protected him under such conditions. It was evidently
   an inference drawn from his own thoughts about the personal
   influence he felt to pervade the world. (Text.)--GEORGE E.
   DAWSON, “The Child and His Religion.”

    (1031)


                            FAITH AND POWER

When the soul of man is full of faith it is in a changed condition. The
man is the same, but his state is not the same, and he in the new state
develops new powers and new capacities. To be full of faith is to be
full also of power of a new kind. For faith is spiritual dynamite.

   Cold iron is precisely identical with iron heated in the fire;
   but tho the metal is the same, the fire that has entered it
   entirely transforms its condition and endows it with a new
   potency. And the fire also by entering the iron takes upon
   itself new action, making of the metal a vehicle of its dynamic
   potency. So does the Spirit of God transfuse and transform and
   vivify and fortify human nature. (Text.)

    (1032)


                           FAITH AND PRAYER

   As the _Lucania_ was in mid-Atlantic a young man came to
   the purser and asked him to lend him £10, as he was without
   money, and every hour was bringing him nearer to London. The
   purser said he had made a rule not to lend money and suggested
   that the young man should borrow from some friend on board.
   “But I have no friend. The only person who would give me £10
   is my mother, and she left London for New York the same day as
   we sailed from New York.” The purser thought for a moment, and
   then he said, “We may get into speaking touch with the vessel
   on which your mother is, and then you could ask her to lend you
   the money by wireless telegraphy.” The next night the young man
   was roused from sleep with the news that the _Lucania_
   was in communication with the boat on which his mother was a
   passenger. She readily handed £10 to the purser on her ship, and
   he authorized the purser on the _Lucania_ to give the young
   man this sum. The vessels were many miles apart in the darkness
   of the night, and yet the need on the one ship was met by the
   love on the other. What a light that throws on the force of
   prayer! “Ask and ye shall receive.” (Text.)

    (1033)


                           FAITH AND SUPPORT

   Mr. Tornvall, of the Ping Liang station, Central China, made a
   test of a converted Taoist priest who wished to be a colporteur
   for the Central China Tract Society. When starting out for a
   distant city he asked the missionary for a few cents, as he
   had no money. Mr. Tornvall pointed out to him from the gospels
   the way in which Jesus sent out His disciples with no money in
   their scrips. “All right,” said the colporteur, “I will also
   make trial of that plan,” and off he started. A month later two
   missionaries found him in a distant city preaching and selling
   his books, and looking remarkably happy. He said that altho he
   had not been feasting every day, yet he could give the same
   testimony as the disciples: he had lacked for nothing. (Text.)

    (1034)


                        FAITH BETTER THAN SIGHT

There is a true story of a man who crossed the river Usk, England,
under circumstances where faith was far better than sight:

   He had been absent on business for some time, and in the
   meantime the bridge had been washed away, and a new one was
   being constructed. While the buttresses were in place, he drove
   up in his gig one very dark night, and gave the reins to his
   horse, who, he knew, was well accustomed to the road. They
   crossed safely over what he took to be the bridge, and came to
   an inn near the river. The landlady asked him, being an old
   acquaintance, what part of the country he had come in from.
   “From Newport,” he answered. “Then you must have crossed the
   river?” said the woman in astonishment. “Yes, of course. How
   else could I have come?” “But how did you manage it, and in
   the dark, too?” “The same as usual; there is no difficulty in
   driving over the bridge, even tho it be dark.” “Bless the man!”
   said the landlady, “there is no bridge to drive over. You must
   have come along the planks left by the men.” “Impossible,” was
   the answer; and nothing could persuade the traveler that night
   that there was no bridge. But early next morning he went to the
   river-side, and found, as he had been told, that the bridge was
   gone. His horse had taken him safely over three planks, left by
   the workmen, where one false step, to the right or to the left,
   would instantly have plunged him into the swollen river beneath.
   The man stood aghast at the dreadful danger he had gone through,
   and so marvelously escaped. (Text.)

    (1035)


                              FAITH CURE

   Among the numerous applicants at the dispensary of the Johns
   Hopkins Hospital, a few days ago, was a negro who confided
   in awestricken tones that he was suffering from snakes. He
   declared he felt them wriggling inside of him ever since he had
   endeavored to quench his thirst by drinking from a garden hose
   when, he believed, at least one or two had slipt down his throat.

   Argument being in vain, the patient was turned over to one
   of the physicians who, after hearing the story, pretended an
   examination. Deeming it a case for faith cure, he told the negro
   he would be all right as long as he would keep his mind off the
   subject of the creeping things of the earth. With smiles of
   gratitude he left the hospital.--Baltimore _Sun._

    (1036)


                       FAITH ESSENTIAL TO ACTION

   All great leaders have been inspired with a general belief. In
   nine cases out of ten, failure is born of unbelief. Tennyson
   sings, “Faith and unfaith can ne’er be equal powers.” To be a
   great leader and so always master of the situation, one must
   of necessity have been a great thinker in action. An eagle was
   never yet hatched from a goose’s egg. Dante speaks in bitter
   sarcasm of Branca d’Oria, whom he placed among the dead, when
   he says, “He still eats and sleeps and puts on clothes.” In
   a case of great emergency, it took a certain general in our
   army several days to get his personal baggage ready. Sheridan
   rode into Winchester without even a change of stockings in his
   saddle-bags.--JAMES T. FIELDS.

    (1037)


                       FAITH FULFILLED BY WORKS

   A youthful owner of swine had a wealthy uncle. His uncle cribbed
   corn for the market. One day he told his nephew that he could
   have all the corn that he could carry in a basket from the
   cribs, where the men were shelling, across the alley to the barn
   where the swine were kept. To his uncle’s surprize and delight,
   the boy took him at his word, and carried corn all day. The boy
   did this because he had faith in his uncle’s word. The nephew’s
   faith pleased him when he saw how much corn he had. If the boy
   had profest belief in his uncle’s promise without acting upon
   it, there would have been intellectual assent but no real faith.

   This is a type of our relation to God. Faith takes God at his
   word. “His divine power hath given us all things that pertain to
   life and Godliness through the knowledge of Him who hath called
   us to glory and virtue, whereby are given unto us exceeding
   great and precious promises.” Every gift of God that we accept
   and use for Him is a new proof of our faith.

    (1038)


                       FAITH IN A MORAL UNIVERSE

Dr. George A. Gordon, in a sermon on “The Land of Pure Delight,” says:

   The world of our ultimate and supreme concern, the world to
   which we give the name heaven, paradise, eternity, is the world
   of pure spirituality. I ask, what grounds have we for believing
   in the reality of that world? The answer, the sole answer which
   assumes many forms, is that we believe in the moral conception
   of the universe in which we live.

   Let me illustrate. Longfellow, in one of his beautiful sonnets,
   speaks of being at Newport News after the war, and while there
   he sees a nameless grave, over which there was this inscription:

    “_A Union Soldier, Mustered Out!_”

   That is all--“A Union Soldier, Mustered Out!” And Longfellow
   said: “Here was a man who gave his all, his life, his name, that
   I might live. He gave his all, his life, his name, and went into
   oblivion that the Union might live.” On what basis did he make
   his sacrifice? The sense of duty. He died because he felt that
   it was his duty to die, because he felt that if he was true to
   himself he could not withhold that sacrifice. If the universe is
   worthy of that servant, will it let that soldier die forever?

   Jesus gave himself on the cross for the world. Why did he do it?
   Because his moral nature told him to do it. He believed in the
   moral ideal of human life and died that men might be pure and
   come to their best. He died for an ideal--that alone explains
   His sacrifice.

    (1039)


                           FAITH, INADEQUATE

   A great many people’s faith is like the old woman’s trust. The
   horse ran away with a wagon in which she was seated and she was
   in imminent peril. But she was rescued, and some one said to
   her: “Madam, how did you feel when the horse ran away?” “Well,”
   said she, “I hardly know how I felt; you see, I trusted in
   Providence at first, and when the harness broke, then I gave
   up.”--JOHN B. GOUGH.

    (1040)


   =Faith in Christ=--See CHRIST, FAITH IN.


                             FAITH IN GOD

   I pluck an acorn from the green sward and hold it to my ear;
   and this is what it says to me: “By and by the birds will come
   and nest in me. By and by I will furnish shade for the cattle.
   By and by I will provide warmth for the home in the pleasant
   fire. By and by I will be shelter from the storm to those who
   have gone under the roof. By and by I will be the strong ribs of
   the great vessel, and the tempest will beat against me in vain,
   while I carry men across the Atlantic.”

   “Oh foolish little acorn, wilt thou be all this?”

   And the acorn answered, “Yes, God and I.”--LYMAN ABBOTT.

    (1041)


                             FAITH IN MEN

   A graphic account of how Adjutant S. H. M. Byers, of the Fifth
   Iowa Infantry, carried to Grant before Richmond the news of
   General Sherman’s advance through North Carolina on his march
   to the sea in 1865 is told in _Harper’s Weekly_. After a
   perilous trip, he finally reached Grant’s headquarters at City
   Point.

   “I ripped open my clothing, handed him my dispatches, and
   excitedly watched the pleased changes on his flushed face while
   he hurriedly read the great news I had brought from Sherman,”
   says Mr. Byers. “General Ord happened in at the moment, and the
   good news was repeated to him. Ord clanked his spurs together,
   rubbed his hands, and manifested joy. ‘I had my fears, I had my
   fears,’ he muttered. ‘And I, not a bit,’ said Grant, springing
   from his seat by the window, ‘I knew Sherman--I knew my man.’”

    (1042)


                            FAITH NECESSARY

   If all the world did not trust all the world, we could not do
   business for a single day. The amount of coin and bank-notes in
   circulation is ridiculously inadequate to the needs of business.
   By far the larger part of every day’s transactions of every kind
   is conducted by means of promises to pay.

   The National Monetary Commission has just reported an
   investigation of this matter. About seventy per cent of the
   daily bank deposits consists of checks. More than ninety per
   cent of the payments in wholesale dealings is made by checks,
   and even more than half of the retail business is conducted
   in the same way, while the banks report weekly pay-rolls
   aggregating $134,800,000, seventy per cent of which is settled
   by checks.

   This is a gigantic illustration of the principle of faith. We
   have faith in the integrity of the average man. We have faith
   in the business institutions of the country. We have faith that
   the future will be as good as the past. And in this faith we
   continue to accept bits of paper in return for most of our labor
   and the goods we sell.

   In exalting the principle of faith in our relations toward God
   and the concerns of the next world, religion is merely applying
   to the Owner of all things the same rules that we apply without
   question to the petty properties of earth.--_Christian
   Endeavor World._

    (1043)


   =Faith of Friends=--See DEPENDENCE.


                            FAITH, ROAD TO

   Take the little “radioscope” in your hand--a tiny tube less than
   an inch in length, closed at one end, with a small magnifying
   lens at the other. In the closed end of the tube you observe a
   small disk of paper covered with microscopic particles of yellow
   crystals--sulfid of zinc. In front of the yellow crystals is a
   small metallic pointer, like the second-hand of a very small
   watch, and on the end of the pointer is--nothing, absolutely
   nothing, so far as your eye can see. Look at it very carefully.
   No! Nothing! Now, take the little tube, go into a darkened
   room, and look into it through the lens end, and you will see
   a sight incredible. The metal pointer does have a minute speck
   of something on its tip, and between that tip and the yellow
   crystals are leaping showers of sparks of light. Will the shower
   stop after a few minutes? No. After an hour? No; nor after a
   thousand hours, or a thousand years, or ten thousand years! The
   calculation is that that all but invisible speck on the tip of
   the pointer will keep that shower of sparks going day and night,
   for thirty thousand years! For that speck is radium, which
   actually seems as tho it were a hot fragment struck off from
   God’s great white throne, so amazing is its radiant energy.

   It operates, not merely by setting “waves” in motion, but it
   throws off a stream of actual particles which move with an
   inconceivable velocity (at the rate, some physicists allege,
   of 200,000 miles a second), and without--and here is the
   miracle--without any apparent diminution in the morsel of radium
   itself. It can hurl these particles literally through six inches
   of armor plate. It can and does send them right through your own
   head while you are looking at them, just as if your brain were
   a loose sieve, as perhaps it is, or a grove of trees quite wide
   apart, and a bright, flashing bird, all crimson and gold, were
   flying right through the trees, without even hitting his wings.

   Now, what I want to say is that the modern discovery of such
   marvels as these, as being real, actual, objective, demonstrated
   facts, stretches the mind out into a thrilling series of
   undreamed-of possibilities, and this is a preparation for faith.
   This is the first step. This is the first lamp on the modern
   road to faith.--ALBERT J. LYMAN.

    (1044)


                            FAITH, STEDFAST

Unanswered prayers are no reason for abandoning our faith in God. This
is the lesson Ella Wheeler Wilcox teaches in this verse:

    I will not doubt, tho all my prayers return
      Unanswered from the still, white realm above;
      I shall believe it is an all-wise love
    Which has refused those things for which I yearn;
      And tho at times I can not keep from grieving,
      Yet the pure ardor of my fixt believing
    Undimmed shall burn.

    (1045)


                        FAITH TAUGHT BY NATURE

   Faith bids us be of good cheer. Long ago, that old Greek studied
   the mental operations of a bee, with brain not as large as a
   pinhead. Here is a little bee, that organizes a city, that
   builds ten thousand cells for honey, twelve thousand cells for
   larvæ, a holy of holies for the mother queen; a little bee that
   observes the increasing heat and when the wax may melt and the
   honey be lost, organizes the swarm into squads, puts sentinels
   at the entrances, glues the feet down, and then with flying
   wings, creates a system of ventilation to cool the honey, that
   makes an electric fan seem tawdry--a little honey-bee that will
   include twenty square miles in the field over whose flowers
   it has oversight. But if a tiny brain in a bee performs such
   wonders providential, who are you, that you should question the
   guidance of God? Lift up your eyes, and behold the hand that
   supports these stars, without pillars, the God who guides the
   planets without collision. Away with fear! (Text.)--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (1046)


                          FAITH WITHOUT WORKS

   A story is told of three prisoners who were captured by pirates.
   One of them was put in a boat without oars and pushed out into
   deep water. The boat sped along safely at first, but when a
   storm broke overhead, the frail craft was tossed upon a rock
   and the man was drowned. The second man was placed in a boat
   with one oar, but he made no progress. Finally, he drifted into
   a whirlpool and was never seen again. The third man was given
   a boat with two oars and he safely crossed to the other side,
   where he was received by friends.

   We are all sailors on the ocean of life bound for a harbor of
   safety whether we arrive in port or not. The unbeliever is the
   man in the boat without oars. The person who thinks that his
   faith without works will save him is the man in the boat with
   only one oar. But the man who believes in God, and works out his
   salvation with fear and trembling, is the man in the boat with
   two oars. (Text.)

    (1047)


                             FAITHFULNESS

   To the coolness and devotion to duty of John Binns, operator
   of the “wireless,” and one of the actors in the shipwreck of
   the _Republic_, was due the prompt assistance accorded
   the stricken passenger-steamer by sister liners. As he himself
   exprest it by wireless, Binns was “on the job” from the time the
   _Florida_ crashed into the _Republic_ amidships until
   the last passenger had been transferred to the colliding vessel.

   It was a stretch of thirty hours, and every minute of that
   time the telephone receivers, which are part of the wireless
   apparatus, were strapped to his eager and listening ears. Seldom
   has there been a more shining example of that calm courage that
   goes hand in hand with a sound sense of business duty.

   Almost until the _Republic_ went down Binns kept his ship
   in touch with Siasconset and passing ships by the use of
   accumulators, for the shutting down of the engines ended the
   power of his electric dynamos that ordinarily give the power of
   transmission to the wireless.

    (1048)

       *       *       *       *       *

   According to dispatches from Hartford, Col. Jacob L. Greene, who
   was the head of the Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company
   from 1877 until his death a year ago, left a fortune of only a
   little more than $50,000. The smallness of his estate created
   comment from the newspapers and much surprize in insurance
   circles. It was supposed that he had taken at least some little
   advantage of the many opportunities for money-making which his
   position gave him.

   The settlement of his estate seems to show that, during all the
   time he was in the insurance business, he conducted himself
   in strict accordance with the axioms which he had laid down
   for the guidance of insurance men and insurance companies in
   general. One of these axioms was, “A mutual company ought not to
   be mulcted for the benefit of the agents.” Another was, “True
   mutuality in life insurance does not seek to favor a few at the
   expense of the many, nor to give to a few what many have lost.”
   (Text.)

    (1049)


   =Faithfulness Before Rulers=--See MAGNIFYING A SACRED OFFICE.


                        FAITHFULNESS UNTO DEATH

   A little girl one day, whose mother had entrusted her with a
   penny for some small purchase, was crusht in the streets. She
   did not drop the penny. Recovering from a fainting fit, dying,
   she opened her firmly-closed fist, and handed her mother the
   humble penny, whose small value she did not realize, saying to
   her: “I have not lost it.” (Text.)

    (1050)


   =False Estimate=--See WORK DESPISED.


                            FALSE INFERENCE

   Rev. A. R. Macduff, in his book of anecdotes about missionaries
   on the frontier force in northwestern India, says that India
   is a land where, when a tale is once set going, it is no easy
   matter “to nail the lie to the counter.” Rowland Bateman, the
   celebrated cricketer, who went as a missionary to India, was
   a stanch teetotaler, yet a rumor was started that he and his
   fellow missionaries were worshipers of the whisky bottle. It
   came about this way: Once, on a preaching tour, they spent a
   night in a “rest-house” which had previously been occupied by
   some carousing European travelers. Empty whisky bottles were
   in evidence, and Bateman utilized a couple for candlesticks to
   hold the lights for the evening Scripture reading. With good
   conscience, Bateman gathered his little company around the
   table on which stood the candles, and they knelt in prayer all
   unconscious of the interpretation a spying native was putting
   upon the service. In the morning he and his band were hailed as
   whisky-bottle worshipers.

    (1051)


                             FALSE LIGHTS

   Young people, sincere people, impulsive people, and imaginative
   people have all a common danger--that of being led astray by
   false lights. Of these false lights there are many kinds--some
   bewildering the intellect, others entangling the affections
   in hopeless morasses, others again misleading the sympathies,
   the imagination, the belief. But they all end in the same
   thing--mischief, mistake, and a loss of way. To the young and
   sincere--and the young are generally sincere, up to a certain
   point--organized craft and falsehood are arts of which they do
   not know the formula, foreign languages whereof they do not
   understand the very alphabet. Appearances stand for realities,
   and words are not so much symbols in themselves. They are able
   to tell their own little white lies and act their own little
   falsities, of a small and insignificant and, for the most part,
   transparent kind; but they do not apply their own rules to the
   grammar of their elders; and when those elders say so and so the
   younger believe them, and when they show such and such lights
   they follow them--in many instances to the same result as those
   doomed ships which were deceived on the Cornish coast, at such
   time as that, let us hope legendary, parson sent out his hobbled
   horse on the cliffs in a fog, with a lantern fastened to his
   fore-feet, to simulate the plunging of a ship in the sea. Then
   said the sailing masters of those doomed and predestined ships:
   “Where one vessel can go another may,” and so plowed their way
   straight onto the rocks and into the hands of death and the
   wreckers. So it is with certain false lights held out to the
   unwary and ignorant.--London _Queen_.

    (1052)


                               FALSEHOOD

A form of words that is strictly true may be used to state what is
wholly false:

   Daniel O’Connell was engaged in a will case, the allegation
   being that the will was a forgery. The subscribing witnesses
   swore that the will had been signed by the deceased “while
   life was in him”--a mode of expression derived from the Irish
   language, and which peasants who have ceased to speak Irish
   still retain. The evidence was strong in favor of the will, when
   O’Connell was struck by the persistency of the man, who always
   repeated the same words, “The life was in him.” O’Connell asked:
   “On the virtue of your oath, was he alive?” “By the virtue of my
   oath, the life was in him.” “Now I call upon you in the presence
   of your Maker, who will one day pass sentence on you for this
   evidence, I solemnly ask--and answer me at your peril--was there
   not a live fly in the dead man’s mouth when his hand was placed
   on the will?” The witness was taken aback at this question; he
   trembled, turned pale, and faltered out an abject confession
   that the counselor was right; a fly had been introduced into
   the mouth of the dead man, to allow the witnesses to swear that
   “life was in him.” (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities
   of Law and Lawyers.”

    (1053)


   =Falsehood from Kindness=--See KINDNESS VIOLATING TRUTH.


   =False Safety=--See DEATH, CHRISTIAN ATTITUDE TOWARD.


                            FALSITY, INNER

   It takes the greatest cunning and a life of practical study to
   know how long, how thick, and exactly where the soundbar should
   be in each instrument. The health and morale of many an old
   violin has been impaired by its nervous system being ignorantly
   tampered with. Every old violin, with the exception of the
   “Pucelle,” has had its soundbar replaced, or it would never
   have endured the increased tightness of strings brought in with
   our modern pitch. Many good forgeries have thus been exposed,
   for in taking the reputed Stradivarius to pieces, the rough,
   clumsy work inside, contrasting with the exquisite finish of
   the old masters, betrays at once the coarseness of a body that
   never really held the soul of a Cremona. (Text.)--H. R.
   HAWEIS, “My Musical Memories.”

    (1054)


                                 FAME

   Fame is the sound which the stream of high thoughts, carried
   down to future ages, makes as it flows; deep, distant, murmuring
   evermore like the waters of the mighty ocean. He who has ears
   truly touched to this music is, in a manner, deaf to the voice
   of popularity.--WILLIAM HAZLITT.

    (1055)

       *       *       *       *       *

The following anecdote of Björnson, the Norwegian poet, illustrates the
peculiar turn that seized a mischievous delegation:

   Björnson was once asked on what occasion he got the greatest
   pleasure from his fame as a poet. His answer was:

   “It was when a delegation from the Right came to my house in
   Christiania and smashed all the windows. Because, when they had
   thus attacked me and were starting for home again, they felt
   that they ought to sing something, and so they began to sing,
   ‘Yes, we love this land of ours.’ They could do nothing else!
   They had to sing the song of the man they had attacked.”

    (1056)


                             FAME AND TIME

The crowning glory of the popular Japanese school was Hokusai, “The
old man mad about painting,” who wrote of himself, in a preface to his
“Hundred Views of Fuji”:

   At seventy-five I have learned a little about the real structure
   of nature--of animals, plants and trees, birds, fishes and
   insects. In consequence, when I am eighty, I shall have made
   still more progress. At ninety I shall penetrate the mystery of
   things; at a hundred I shall certainly have reached a marvelous
   stage, and when I am a hundred and ten, everything I do--be it
   but a line or dot--will be alive. I beg those who live as long
   as I do to see if I do not keep my word.

Hokusai died in 1849, at the age of eighty-nine, his work revealing
a continual increase in power to the last. Of his work, Mrs. Amsden
writes:

   His fecundity was marvelous. He illustrated books of all
   kinds, poetry, comic albums, accounts of travels--in fact,
   his works are an encyclopedia of Japanese life. His paintings
   are scattered, and countless numbers lost, many being merely
   ephemeral drawings, thrown off for the passing pleasure of the
   populace.

On his death-bed Hokusai murmured, “If heaven had but granted me five
more years I could have been a repainter.”--DORA AMSDEN,
“Impressions of Ukiyo-ye.”

    (1057)


                            FAME, ILLUSIVE

A rather amusing illustration of the slender foundation on which
literary fame rests is found in the following:

   “Literary fame is not always highly regarded by the people,”
   says William Dean Howells. “I remember when I was in San Remo,
   some years ago, seeing in a French newspaper this notice by a
   rat-trap maker of Lyons:

   “‘To whom it may concern: M. Pierre Loti, of Lyons, inventor of
   the automatic rat-trap, begs to state that he is not the same
   person and that he has nothing in common with one Pierre Loti, a
   writer.’”

    (1058)


                         FAME, QUALIFYING FOR

   Benjamin West’s picture of the death of Nelson is closely
   connected with an anecdote of the great sailor. Just before
   he went to sea for the last time, he was present at a dinner,
   during which he sat between the artist and Sir William Hamilton.

   Nelson was expressing to Hamilton his regret that he had not, in
   his youth, acquired some taste for art and some discrimination
   in judging it.

   “But,” said he, turning to West, “there is one picture whose
   power I do feel. I never pass a shop where your ‘Death of Wolfe’
   is in the window without being stopt by it.”

   West made some gracious answer to the compliment, and Nelson
   went on. “Why have you painted no more like it?”

   “Because, my lord,” West replied, “there are no more subjects.”

   “Ah!” said the sailor, “I didn’t think of that.”

   “But, my lord,” continued West, “I am afraid your intrepidity
   will yet furnish me with another such scene; and if it should, I
   shall certainly avail myself of it.”

   “Will you?” said Nelson. “Will you, Mr. West? Then I hope I
   shall die in the next battle!”

   A few days later he sailed, his strangely exprest aspiration was
   realized, and the scene lives upon canvas.

    (1059)


                             FAME, SUDDEN

   The name of “U. S. Grant, Nashville,” on the Lindell Hotel
   (St. Louis) register was sufficient to spread the news of his
   presence with almost the rapidity of wildfire throughout the
   city. The Lindell lobby was soon thronged with people eager to
   catch a glimpse of the little man who had won the battle of
   Chattanooga. The streets which he paced in vain, time and again,
   only five years before in search of employment, now resounded
   with cheers in his honor.--NICHOLAS SMITH, “Grant, the
   Man of Mystery.”

    (1060)


   =Fame Unsatisfying=--See UNHAPPINESS OF THE GREAT.


                              FAMILIARITY

   Acuteness of the perceptive faculties characterized the
   celebrated Maine steamship captain who, for more than twenty
   years, is said to have regularly navigated his vessel in the
   thickest fogs and darkest nights through the tortuous reaches,
   thoroughfares, and channels of the “inside passage” along the
   coast of Maine, without accident. When asked for an explanation
   of his remarkable record, he replied, “I knew the bark of every
   dog and the crow of every rooster on the line, and often steered
   by them.”--SUMNER I. KIMBALL, “Joshua James.”

    (1061)


                             FAMILY CIRCLE

   In Korea the family exists, but not the circle. There is no
   table around which they gather for meals, no reading nor music,
   no evening parties which draw them together, no “At Homes,” no
   family pew in which to sit on Sunday, no picnic excursions in
   which all members join. The master eats by himself, the wife
   by herself, the sons and daughters each separately and alone.
   Because of this, our custom of conversing at table, and allowing
   the talk and attention to wander all over the universe, while
   semiconsciously engaged in the serious act of “eating rice,”
   seems very absurd. “When you eat, eat, and when you talk, talk,
   but why try both at one and the same time?”--JAMES S.
   GALE, “Korea in Transition.”

    (1062)


                       FAMILY OFFENSE IN STORKS

   The following stories concerning storks seem to indicate that
   they have views concerning the purity of their race and act
   upon them: Bishop Stanley relates that a French surgeon at
   Smyrna, being unable to procure a stork, on account of the
   great veneration entertained for them by the Turks, purloined
   all the eggs from a stork’s nest and replaced them with hen’s
   eggs. Ultimately, chickens were hatched, greatly to the surprize
   of the storks. The male stork speedily disappeared and was not
   seen for two or three days, when he returned with a large
   number of other storks, who assembled in a circle in the town,
   without paying any attention to the numerous spectators their
   proceedings attracted. The female stork was brought into the
   midst of the circle, and, after some discussion, was attacked
   by the whole flock and torn to pieces. The assemblage then
   dispersed and the nest was left tenantless. A somewhat similar
   case has been cited by the same author as having occurred in the
   vicinity of Berlin. Two storks made their nest on one of the
   chimneys of a mansion, and the owner of the house, inspecting
   it, found in it an egg, which he replaced by one belonging to
   a goose. The stork did not appear to notice the change until
   the egg was hatched, when the male bird rose from the nest,
   and, after flying around it several times with loud screams,
   disappeared. For some days the female bird continued to tend
   the changeling without interruption; but on the morning of the
   fourth day the inmates of the house were disturbed by loud cries
   in a field fronting it. The noise proceeded from nearly five
   hundred storks standing in a compact body listening, apparently,
   to the harangue of a solitary bird about twenty yards off. When
   this bird had concluded its address it retired and another took
   its place and addrest the meeting in a similar manner. These
   proceedings were continued by a succession of birds until eleven
   in the forenoon, when the whole court rose simultaneously into
   the air, uttering dismal cries. All this time the female had
   remained in her nest, but in evident fear. When the meeting
   broke up all the storks flew toward her, headed by one--supposed
   to be the offended husband--who struck her violently three or
   four times, knocking her out of the nest. The unfortunate stork
   made no effort to defend herself, and was speedily destroyed by
   the troop, who also annihilated the hapless gosling and left
   not a fragment of the contaminated nest.--_Popular Science
   Monthly._

    (1063)


                            FAMILY RELIGION

   During a series of revival meetings in a town in Ohio a very
   earnest and intelligent little boy was converted. Several nights
   after he brought his mother to the meeting, and was solicitous
   for her conversion. He spoke to one of the workers and asked
   that his mother might be invited to seek the Lord. The woman was
   approached, but said emphatically that she had been converted.
   The little fellow was informed of his mother’s answer, that she
   was converted, when with an astonished expression, he said:
   “First I’d knowed about it.” Certainly if that mother had given
   any evidence that she was a Christian her little boy would have
   found it out. What a low conception of Christianity some people
   have, and how poorly they exemplify it before their children and
   neighbors. They are so far beneath the Bible standard, as well
   as beneath the privilege, that no one even suspects that they
   make a profession of Christianity.

    (1064)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A great many people say there is nothing in the Christian
   discipline of a household. Let us see. In New Hampshire, there
   were two neighborhoods--the one of six families, the other of
   five families. The six families disregarded the Sabbath. In
   time, five of these families were broken up by the separation
   of husbands and wives; the other, by the father becoming a
   thief. Eight or nine of the parents became drunkards, one
   committed suicide, and all came to penury. Of some forty or
   fifty descendants, about twenty are known to be drunkards and
   gamblers and dissolute. Four or five have been in state-prison.
   One fell in a duel. Some are in the almshouse. Only one became
   a Christian, and he after having been outrageously dissipated.
   The other five families, that regarded the Sabbath, were all
   prospered. Eight or ten of the children are consistent members
   of the church. Some of them became officers in the church; one
   is a minister of the gospel; one is a missionary in China. No
   poverty among them. The homestead is now in the hands of the
   third generation. Those who have died have died in the peace of
   the gospel. (Text.)--T. DE WITT TALMAGE.

    (1065)


                           FANCY, DECEPTIVE

It requires experience and love of reality to avoid the deceptions of
life.

   “During the conflagration at the Crystal Palace in the winter
   of 1866–67, when the animals were destroyed by the fire, it
   was supposed that the chimpanzee had succeeded in escaping
   from his cage. Attracted to the roof, with this expectation in
   full force, men saw the unhappy animal holding on to it, and
   writhing in agony to get astride of one of the iron ribs. It
   need not be said that its struggles were watched by those below
   with breathless suspense, and, as the newspapers informed us,
   with sickening dread.” But there was no animal whatever there;
   and all this feeling was thrown away upon a tattered piece of
   blind, so torn as to resemble, to the eye of fancy, the body,
   arms, and legs of an ape!--EDWIN J. HOUSTON, “The
   Wonder Book of Light.”

    (1066)


   =Fashion, Absurd=--See ABSURD NOTIONS.


                              FAST LIVING

   The railroad has compelled us all to live fast. The pace of the
   locomotive kills. Everywhere we see among our people an alarming
   increase of serious diseases. People become anxious, irritable,
   nervous and hurried. Something snaps, and the end comes quickly.
   As an evidence that this intensity of experience is harmful, we
   may notice the rapidly shortening hours of labor, the increase
   of holidays, the lengthening of vacations, and the disposition
   among the city people to spend more and more time in the country
   during the summer. All these are defenses against the wear and
   tear of city life--why? Because people and things can be moved
   so fast that all business moves faster and faster, and for such
   a killing pace we must have the relief of more rest and longer
   vacations. The railroad has in all these directions changed our
   social and business life so that we lead wholly different lives
   from all the men who have gone before. On the other hand, it has
   been of very great mental benefit. It is said that insanity was
   at one time very common among farmers. The dulness and stupidity
   of their lives drove them into mental collapse. The railroad now
   brings the town to the farm, the city paper comes to the rural
   fireside, and trips to town are cheap and easy. The appalling
   monotony of country life is quickened by the rush of the train
   through the quiet valleys and life seems more worth living,
   because more interesting. Balancing one thing against another
   we must conclude that there is a gain in all this.--CHARLES
   BARNARD, _The Chautauquan_.

    (1067)


   =Fastidiousness=--See COOLNESS IN DANGER.


                                FASTING

The month of fasting was probably borrowed by Mohammed from the
Christian Lent. There are many traditions that tell how important
fasting is. Let one suffice:

   Every good act that a man does shall receive from ten to seven
   hundred rewards, but the rewards of fasting are beyond bounds,
   for fasting is for God alone and He will give its rewards.
   The chief Moslem fast is that of the month of Ramazan. The
   fast is extremely hard upon the laboring classes when, by the
   changes of the lunar calendar, it falls in the heat of summer,
   when the days are long. Even then it is forbidden to drink a
   drop of water or take a morsel of food. Yet it is a fact that
   Mohammedans, rich and poor, spend more on food in that month
   than in any other month of the year; and it is also true that
   physicians have a run of patients with troubles from indigestion
   at the close of this religious fast! The explanation is simple.
   Altho the fast extends over one lunar month, it only begins at
   dawn and ends at sunset each day. During the whole night it is
   usual to indulge in pleasure, feasting and dinner parties. This
   makes clear what Mohammed meant when he said that “God would
   make the fast an ease and not a difficulty.”

   The hours during which fasting is prescribed are to be sacredly
   observed. Not only is there total abstinence from food and
   drink, but bathing, smoking, taking snuff, smelling a flower,
   and the use of medicine are prohibited. I have even heard Moslem
   jurists discuss whether hypodermic medication was allowed during
   the fast period. In eastern Arabia the use of an eye-lotion
   even is considered as equivalent to breaking the fast. The law
   provides, however, that infants, idiots, the sick, and the
   aged are exempted from observing this fast.--SAMUEL M.
   ZWEMER, “The Moslem World.”

    (1068)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In a remarkable case, recorded by Dr. Wilan, of a young
   gentleman who starved himself under the influence of a religious
   delusion, life was prolonged for sixty days, during the whole
   of which time nothing but a little orange-juice was taken.
   Somewhat analogous are those in which all food is abstained
   from while the person is in a state of trance or partially
   suspended animation. This state may be prolonged for many days
   or even for weeks, provided that the body be kept sufficiently
   warm. The most remarkable instances of this character have been
   furnished by certain Indian fakirs, who are able to reduce
   themselves to a state resembling profound collapse, in which
   all vital operations are brought almost to a standstill. In one
   case, the man was buried in an underground cell for six weeks,
   and carefully watched; in another, the man was buried for ten
   days in a grave lined with masonry, and covered with large
   slabs of stone. When the bodies were disinterred they resembled
   corpses and no pulsation could be detected at the heart or in
   the arteries. Vitality was restored by warmth and friction. It
   is probable that the fakirs, before submitting to the ordeal,
   stupefied themselves with bhang (Indian hemp), the effects of
   which would last for some time, and the warmth of the atmosphere
   and soil would prevent any serious loss of heat, such as would
   soon occur in a colder climate, when the processes by which it
   is generated are made to cease. (Text.)--ROBSON ROOSE,
   New York _Review_.

    (1069)


                       FATHER ANIMALS UNPARENTAL

   In very few animals do the males ever attempt to protect the
   females, even where the latter have their young to take care
   of. When the hen with her brood of chickens is attacked, it is
   not the cock that ruffs his feathers and defends them with his
   spurs; it is the mother herself that defends them. The cock is
   always found with hens that have no chickens, and only uses
   his spurs in fighting with other cocks that have no notion of
   injuring the females. In the entire animal kingdom the cases
   where the male uses his great powers to protect the female or
   the young, or to bring them food, are so rare that where they
   are observed they are recorded as curious approximations to the
   social state of man. (Text.)--LESTER F. WARD, _The
   Forum_.

    (1070)


                              FATHERHOOD

Dr. Cortland Myers, of Boston, relates the following story, as told by
a ship’s surgeon:

   On our last trip a boy fell overboard from the deck. I didn’t
   know who he was, and the crew hastened out to save him. They
   brought him on board the ship, took off his outer garments,
   turned him over a few times, and worked his hands and his feet.
   When they had done all they knew how to do, I came up to be of
   assistance, and they said he was dead and beyond help. I turned
   away as I said to them, “I think you’ve done all you could”; but
   just then a sudden impulse told me I ought to go over and see
   what I could do. I went over and looked down into the boy’s face
   and discovered that it was my own boy. Well, you may believe I
   didn’t think the last thing had been done. I pulled off my coat
   and bent over that boy; I blew in his nostrils and breathed into
   his mouth; I turned him over and over, and simply begged God to
   bring him back to life, and for four long hours I worked, until
   just at sunset I began to see the least flutter of breath that
   told me he lived. Oh, I will never see another boy drown without
   taking off my coat in the first instance and going to him and
   trying to save him as if I knew he were my own boy.

    (1071)

       *       *       *       *       *

   There was once a Quaker, John Hartman, whose son enlisted in the
   army. Not long after he had marched away as a soldier, a battle
   was fought. In the list of the missing appeared the Quaker’s
   son’s name. The father went to the field of carnage, and scanned
   the many upturned faces. He listened to the faintest cry of the
   wounded to discover if it were the voice of his son. More than
   one lying in the agony of death thought, “I wish that were my
   father.”

   After the darkness of night fell he lighted his lantern and
   continued his search. Then the wind began to blow and his
   light went out. A new thought came to him. Forming a trumpet
   of his hands he called, “John Hartman, thy father calleth for
   thee.” There was no answer. Going on farther he called again,
   “John Hartman, thy father calleth for thee.” There was a faint
   moan and a “Here I am father.” How gladly that father hastened
   forward and brought his son home!

   Many are being beaten down in the fierce battle of sin and evil.
   They have fallen in the darkness and are perishing. The loving
   heavenly Father is calling to them. If they make the faintest
   cry of response, “Lord, here I am,” how gladly will He hasten to
   their relief. (Text.)

    (1072)

   See CONFIDENCE.


                          FATHERHOOD THE KEY

   The other day I had a cipher telegram. Glancing it over, I could
   read every separate word. But once I rearranged the words with
   the key, a hidden meaning and beauty flamed forth. Moses, Job,
   Isaiah, Plato, Confucius, astronomers, poets, philosophers, all
   read the separate words, but when Christ came the key-word, “Our
   Heavenly Father,” is given, and the whole heavens flamed with
   the love of God.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1073)


   =Father-love=--See LOST, FINDING THE; LOVE’S COMPLETENESS.


                              FATHER, OUR

Miss Lilly Ryder Gracey, in _The Missionary Review of the World_,
in a sketch of the life and work of the Rev. Egerton R. Young, in the
land of the Cree and Salteaus Indians, of Canada, gives this incident:

   “Missionary,” said a savage, stalwart-looking Indian to him,
   “gray hairs here, and grandchildren in the wigwam, tell me that
   I am getting to be an old man; and yet I never before heard such
   things as you have told us to-day. I am so glad I did not die
   before I heard this wonderful story. Yet I am getting old. Gray
   hairs here, and grandchildren yonder, tell the story. Stay as
   long as you can, missionary; tell us much of these things; and
   when you have to go away, come back soon.”

   “He turned as tho he would go back to his place and sit down,”
   said Dr. Young in narrating the story, “but he only went a step
   or two ere he turned round and said:

   “‘Missionary, may I say more?’

   “‘Talk on,’ I replied; ‘I am here now to listen.’

   “‘You said just now, “Notawenan” (Our Father).’

   “‘Yes, I did say, “Our Father.”’

   “‘That is very new and sweet to us,’ he replied. ‘We never
   thought of the Great Spirit as Father. We heard Him in the
   thunder, and saw Him in the lightning and tempest and blizzard,
   and we were afraid. So, when you tell us of the Great Spirit as
   Father--that is very beautiful to us.’

   “Hesitating a moment, he stood there, a wild, picturesque
   Indian; yet my heart had strangely gone out in loving interest
   and sympathy to him. Lifting up his eyes to mine again, he said:

   “‘May I say more?’

   “‘Yes,’ I answered; ‘say on.’

   “‘You say, “Notawenan” (Our Father); He is your Father?’

   “‘Yes, He is my Father.’

   “Then he said, while his eyes and voice yearned for the answer:

   “‘Does it mean He is my Father--poor Indian’s Father?’

   “‘Yes, oh yes!’ I exclaimed, ‘He is your Father, too.’

   “‘Your Father--missionary’s Father--and Indian’s Father, too?’
   he repeated.

   “‘Yes, that is true.’

   “‘Then we are brothers!’ he almost shouted out.

   “‘Yes, we are brothers,’ I replied.

   “The excitement in the audience had become something wonderful,
   and when the conversation with the old man had reached this
   point, and in such an unexpected and yet dramatic manner had so
   clearly brought out, not only the fatherhood of God, but the
   oneness of the human family, the people could hardly restrain
   their expressions of delight.

   “The old man, however, had not yet finished, and so, quietly
   restraining the most demonstrative ones, he again turned and
   said:

   “‘May I say more?’

   “‘Yes, say on; say all that is in your heart.’

   “Then came his last question, which millions of weary souls
   dissatisfied with their false régimes are asking:

   “‘Missionary, I do not want to be rude, but why has my white
   brother been so long time in coming with that great Book and its
   wonderful story?’”

    (1074)


   =Father’s Sake, For=--See LOVE MAKES PATIENT.


                            FATHER’S VOICE

   I was watching the sheep, and two little lambs got lost from
   their mother. They were black lambs, and didn’t know they were
   lost; but I did, and so did the mother. I stood and watched
   while the old mother sheep called and called and called. But the
   little black lambs didn’t answer--they didn’t know they were
   lost. So I continued to watch, and directly the lambs heard
   the mother calling. And there must have been something in the
   mother-voice that told the lambs they were lost, for they began
   bleating and crying and running about as if mad, so frightened
   were they. Finally, the mother and the lambs saw each other, and
   truly it was a poem of nature to see the mother leaping toward
   the lambs and the lambs running toward her! It reminded me of
   the meeting of that old father and the prodigal son when the boy
   came back home from the far country. And do you know that meadow
   scene made me turn my eyes everywhither--earthward, skyward,
   spaceward! And I said, “Oh, my soul, if lambs hear and answer
   the voice of their mother, wilt not thou hear and answer the
   voice of thy Father? Oh, soul, lambs are not afraid when mother
   is near. Why shouldst thou be afraid when thy Father is near,
   and God is everywhere?” (Text.)--F. F. SHANNON.

    (1075)


                                FATIGUE

Dr. Luther H. Gulick describes some effects of fatigue:

   Fatigue promptly attacks and destroys our sense of proportion.
   I know no better illustration of this than the way we will
   leave our professional work. When I am really fatigued it is
   very difficult for me to go home when the time comes. It is, of
   course, true that there are always little things remaining to
   be done; but when I am especially tired I can not distinguish
   between those which are important enough to keep me and those
   which are not. I only see how many things are still undone; and
   I tend to go on and on.

   If I see a scrap of paper on the floor, I can not help going
   out of my chair and taking time to pick up that wretched thing
   and put it in my waste-basket. It assumes, somehow, the same
   importance in my mind with that of thinking out my to-morrow’s
   schedule. I will stay and putter about little things that do
   not need attention. My sense of balance, of proportion, and
   perspective is gone. I’ve lost my eye for the cash value of
   things.--“Mind and Work.”

    (1076)


   =Faults Blotted Out=--See EFFACEMENT OF SINS.


   =Faults, How to See=--See LOOKING DOWN.


                          FAULTS OF THE GREAT

   When the great Duke of Marlborough died and one began to speak
   of his avarice, “He was so great a man,” said Bolingbroke, “I
   had forgotten that he had that fault.”

    (1077)


   =Faults, Unconscious=--See SELF-ESTIMATES.


                              FAVORITISM

The advantage of position is well illustrated in the following incident:

   When Louis XIV was at play with some courtiers, a dispute
   arose in regard to one of the turns of the game. The king was
   eager, and his opponent seemed resolute to resist; and the rest
   of the court stood round maintaining a dignified neutrality,
   and none venturing a remark. At that moment Count de Grammont
   was seen entering the apartment, whereon the king called out,
   “Come hither, Grammont, and decide this dispute between us.”
   “Your majesty is in the wrong,” said the count, the moment he
   approached. “How can you say I am in the wrong!” cried the king,
   “when you have not heard what is the point in dispute?” “Why,
   sire,” said Grammont, “if the point had been doubtful, all these
   gentlemen who are standing round silent would have decided in
   your favor long ago.”--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of
   Law and Lawyers.”

    (1078)


                                 FEAR

   Several thousand mine workers of the anthracite region, chiefly
   foreigners, refused to enter the mines to-day because they had
   a superstitious fear that the earth would be destroyed when
   enveloped in the tail of Halley’s comet to-night, May 18, 1910.

   Efforts of the English-speaking miners, [at Wilkesbarre, Penn.]
   to get them to go to work were futile, and they said that if the
   world came to an end they wanted to be on the surface where they
   could see, instead of in the depths of the mines. A number of
   them spent most of the day in prayer, and many of them were in a
   condition of great fear and nervousness. A number of collieries
   were so short handed that they had to shut down for the day.

    (1079)


                           FEAR AS A MOTIVE

The late George T. Angell, in “Our Dumb Animals,” gives this incident,
showing that fear of unseen authority, is a forcible motive, even with
would-be transgressors:

   The incident occurred on the rise of land near Park Street
   Church (Boston). A horse, evidently laboring under the
   impression that he was overloaded, stopt and refused to go any
   farther, and a crowd gathered. Just then one voice called out
   from the crowd:

   “Why don’t you whip him?”

   “Whip him,” said the driver--“whip him! How do I know that there
   ain’t an agent of that darned old Society for the Prevention of
   Cruelty to Animals standin’ right here in this crowd?”

   We have never considered it good policy to send out any of our
   agents in uniform, and so any respectable citizen who seems
   to be interested in the protection of horses is liable to be
   suspected of being one of our agents. (Text.)

    (1080)


                              FEAR OF GOD

   Of all the memorials found in Westminster Abbey, there is not
   one that gives a nobler thought than the life lesson from the
   monument to Lord Lawrence. Simply his name and date of his
   death, and these words: “He feared man so little because he
   feared God so much.” Here is one great secret of victory. The
   prayer of the Rugby boy, John Laing Bickersteth, found locked up
   in his desk after his death, was: “Oh God, give me courage that
   I may fear none but thee.” (Text.)

    (1081)


                              FEAR OF MAN

   Ex-President Roosevelt is usually pictured as proof against
   fear, but the New York _Times_ tells of an occasion when he
   admits that he was badly frightened.

   It was on the evening of his first diplomatic reception
   as President, and the long and brilliant line headed by
   ambassadors, foreign ministers and attaches, and distinguished
   army and naval officers in gorgeous uniforms, was passing slowly
   before him. In this procession was a lady who knew the President
   quite well, and who confidently expected a hearty greeting. To
   her surprize, Mr. Roosevelt merely inclined his head over her
   hand, and bowed her on with the throng.

   An hour later she met the President in the reception-room, and
   he spoke to her in the friendliest way.

   “Why didn’t you come in time for the reception?” he asked.

   “I did,” she replied, “and you did not even recognize me!”

   “Impossible!” exclaimed the President, “but,” and he set his
   teeth together hard and whispered, “to tell you the truth, Mrs.
   ----, I was so fearful I wouldn’t do the right thing I could not
   think of anybody except myself!”

    (1082)

       *       *       *       *       *

Kindness, justice and a little heavenly wisdom would guard a ruler far
more effectually than the precautions mentioned below:

   The Sultan is chiefly afraid of the darkness, and it costs him
   $900 per night to have his bedroom guarded. This sum is split
   up between the eight generals entrusted with the work and their
   supernumeraries. Two generals take the long watch every night
   outside his door, and receive $200 apiece for it; beneath them
   is a colonel who is paid $150 a night, and guards receiving
   smaller amounts. All they have to do to earn their princely
   salaries is to tramp up and down the corridor with their eyes on
   the beautiful satin-wood door inlaid with mother-of-pearl which
   took an expert two years to inlay. (Text.)--_Tid-Bits._

    (1083)


   =Fear, Paralyzing=--See HOPELESS FEAR.


                            FEAR, RELIGIOUS

   The missing qualities in Wesley’s religious state at this time
   [at Oxford] are obvious, It utterly lacked the element of joy.
   Religion is meant to have for the spiritual landscape the office
   of sunshine, but in Wesley’s spiritual sky burned no divine
   light, whether of certainty or of hope. He imagined he could
   distil the rich wine of spiritual gladness out of mechanical
   religious exercises; but he found himself, to his own distress,
   and in his own words, “dull, flat, and unaffected in the use of
   the most solemn ordinances.” Fear, too, like a shadow, haunted
   his mind: fear that he was not accepted before God; fear that he
   might lose what grace he had; fear both of life and of death.
   He dare not grant himself, he declared, the liberty that others
   enjoyed. His brother Samuel, whose letters are always rich in
   the salt of common sense, had remonstrated with his younger
   brother for the austerities he practised and the rigors of
   alarmed self-interrogation under which he lived. John Wesley
   defends himself by the plea--in which there is an unconscious
   pathos--that he lacks his brother’s strength and dare take no
   risks.

   “Mirth, I grant,” he says, “is very fit for you. But does it
   follow that it is fit for me? If you are to rejoice evermore
   because you have put your enemies to flight, am I to do the same
   while they continually assault me? You are very glad because
   you have passed from death to life. Well! but let him be afraid
   who knows not whether he is to live or die. Whether this be my
   condition or no, who can tell better than myself?”--W. H.
   FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (1084)


   =Fearlessness of Death=--See MARTYR SPIRIT.


   =Feast of the Soul=--See CHAINS.


   =Fecundity=--See DESTRUCTION NECESSARY.


                           FECUNDITY OF LIFE

   An English naturalist has figured out that a single-stem mother
   of the common aphids, or “green-fly” of the rose, would give
   origin, at its regular rate of multiplication and provided each
   individual born lived out its natural life, which is only a few
   days at best, to over thirty-three quintrillions of rose aphids
   in a single season, equal in weight to more than a billion and
   a half of men. Of course such a thing never happens, because
   so many of the young aphids get eaten by lady-bird beetles and
   flower-fly larvæ and other enemies before they come to be old
   enough to produce young.--VERNON L. KELLOGG, “Insect
   Stories.”

    (1085)


                           FEEDING TOO MUCH

   The apostle James puts the emphasis of religion on doing,
   not hearing alone. The one definition of religion we have in
   Scripture, and that given by him, is suggestive of the divine
   order--the best way to keep oneself unspotted from the world
   is to be occupied in ministry to others. A good deacon once
   complained to Thomas Dixon that his sermons placed too much
   emphasis on doing and reminded him of Jesus’ command to Peter,
   “Feed my sheep.” Mr. Dixon replied: “That is what is the
   matter with you; I have fed you until you are so fat you can
   not walk.”--CHARLES LUTHER KLOSS, “Proceedings of The
   Religious Education Association,” 1904.

    (1086)


                          FEELING A FOUNTAIN

   Feeling is a fountain that gushes life. Emotions in the soul are
   like songs, pouring forth from the birds in the thicket. Orange
   groves and peach orchards exhale perfume, and feeling is the
   soul’s fragrance, rising toward God and its fellows. The seas
   send up their whitest mists, and the soul ought to send up its
   emotions in whitest clouds of incense toward the throne of God
   and toward man’s soul.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1087)


                         FEELING AND PRINCIPLE

   You know the difference between feeling and principle. Yonder
   is an old sailboat out in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean, and
   when the wind blows, she travels ten miles an hour, but let the
   wind lull, and she will lie there two weeks, within a hundred
   yards of where the wind left her. She doesn’t go anywhere. That
   is feeling. When the wind blows, off she goes.

   What is principle? Yonder is a grand old ocean steamer, and
   when the wind blows she spreads her sails and works her steam,
   and on she goes; and when the wind lulls, the engineer pulls
   his throttle wider open, and she goes at the rate of fifteen
   miles an hour, whether the wind blows or not. And that is the
   difference between principle and feeling.--“Famous Stories of
   Sam P. Jones.”

    (1088)


   =Feeling the Christian Spirit=--See CONSISTENCY.


                           FEELINGS RESERVED

   Among Scotch qualities, the deepest rooted, apart from the fear
   of God, is sentiment. And yet we do not receive credit for it
   because we have not sentimentalism, which is the caricature and
   ghost of sentiment. The sentiment of the Scotch is of the heart
   and not of the lips. If I saw a couple of Scotchmen kissing
   each other good-by, I wouldn’t lend five shillings to either
   of them. It is not an uncommon thing to see such an exhibition
   among Italians. I do not blame them. They are as God made them
   and so they must be. People doubt whether we have any sentiment
   at all. Some think we are hard-hearted and cold-blooded. Our
   manner is less than genial and not effusive. Our misfortune is
   not to be able to express our feelings. This inability is allied
   to our strength; strong people conceal their feelings.--JOHN
   WATSON.

    (1089)


   =Fees=--See RIDICULE, APT.


   =Feet Showing Character=--See CHARACTER SHOWN IN THE FEET.


   =Female Animals Unprotected=--See FATHER ANIMALS UNPARENTAL.


                          FENCING OUT ENEMIES

Moral evils are kept out not by a thorn fence, but by holy ideals and
loving activities. These are quite as effective for character as this
Arizona device for excluding rattlesnakes:

   Did you ever hear of a rattlesnake fence--not one made of
   rattlesnakes, of course not, but one made of prickly thorns to
   protect one from the rattlers and keep them away? That is what
   the Arizona campers build, and the only way to keep these deadly
   poisoners away is by building one of these fences of oktea, a
   shrub covered with thorns which grows on the desert.

   As the tents have no doors and are not set much above the
   ground, it would appear easy for Mr. Rattler to effect an
   entrance. Imagine the sensation of crawling into bed some cold
   night to strike against the clammy skin of a snake, and this
   is just where Mr. Snake likes to snuggle, in among the warm
   blankets.

   To avoid this men who work in the mines have found that a snake
   will not go near this oktea, and they have built closely knit
   fences around their tents, with little gates to go in and out,
   and beyond this the rattler will not penetrate. It was first the
   Indians of the desert who discovered this deadly shrub, and they
   got the secret from birds and animals, which, to protect their
   young, travel sometimes many miles back and forth, bringing
   the thorns with which to cover their little nests. Gophers and
   other small animals there cover their nests in this manner.--Los
   Angeles _Times_.

    (1090)


                               FERTILITY

These lines are by Edward Rowland Sill:

      Clear water on smooth rock
    Could give no foothold for a single flower,
      Or slenderest shaft of grain:
      The stone must crumble under storm and rain,
    The forests crash beneath the whirlwind’s power,
      And broken boughs from any a tempest-shock,
    And fallen leaves from many a wintry hour,
      Must mingle in the mold,
      Before the harvest whitens on the plain,
      Bearing a hundredfold.
    Patience, O weary heart!
    Let all thy sparkling hours depart,
    And all thy hopes be withered with the frost,
    And every effort tempest-tossed--
      So when all life’s green leaves
    Are fallen, and moldered underneath the sod,
    Thou shalt not go too lightly to thy God,
      But heavy with full sheaves. (Text.)

    (1091)


                               FETISHISM

Miss F. M. Dennis writes from Ebu Owerri, a place about seventy miles
southeast of Onitsha, North Africa:

   It is a custom in this Ibo country when a child is born for the
   parents to go into the bush, cut a stick from a tree and plant
   it. When the child is old enough to walk and know anything it
   worships this young tree. All the Ibo people have them. But
   until the child comes to man’s estate and has a household, this
   is the only idol he has.

    (1092)

   The negroes of the Gold and Slave Coasts, like every other
   people low in the stage of civilization, believe that inanimate,
   as well as animate, objects have souls or ghosts, a belief which
   is proved by the practise of burying arms, implements, utensils,
   etc., for the use of the dead in Dead-land, and there continues
   the former pursuit of the man, using the souls or ghosts of
   the weapons buried with him; but the negroes have gone beyond
   this, and just as they believe man to possess a third element,
   or indwelling spirit, so do they believe that every natural
   object, everything not made by human hands, has, in addition to
   its soul or ghost, a third element of spiritual individuality.
   They hold that just as, when the man dies, the kra of the man
   enters a new-born child, and the soul, or ghost-man, goes to
   Dead-land; so, when the tree dies, the kra, so to speak, of
   the tree enters a seedling, and the ghost-tree goes to join
   the ranks of the shadowy forest in Dead-land. And it is these
   animating or spiritual tenants of natural objects and natural
   features that the negro fears and consequently worships.--A.
   B. ELLIS, _The Popular Science Monthly_.

    (1093)


   =Fetters Worn for Others=--See HARDSHIP VICARIOUSLY BORNE.


   =Fickleness in Work=--See ATTAINMENT SUPERFICIAL.


                        FIDELITY AMONG ANIMALS

   Instances of almost human fidelity are common among deer. We
   have several times been witness of them. On one occasion we had
   wounded a good stag late in the evening; the herd broke away,
   leaving him alone. In a few minutes another fine stag, evidently
   his friend, detached himself from the herd and galloped back to
   where the first lay wounded in a burn (brook). It got so dark
   that we could only tell the whereabouts of the wounded beast
   by seeing the other standing by his side. We crawled up to
   about a hundred yards of him, but still could not see the one
   we had shot. We stood up, expecting he would jump up and make
   a run for it, but he was too badly hit. Walking on, we at last
   saw his gray head in the heather, and a bullet finished him.
   Still the devoted friend kept close by and would not leave the
   spot. We had not the heart to shoot the poor beast after he
   had given proof of such wonderful fidelity, and at last had
   almost to drive him away.--Lord Walsingham and Sir RALPH
   PAYNE-GALLWEY, “Shooting.”

    (1094)


                          FIDELITY, CHRISTIAN

   A little Korean boy named Twee-Sungie was brought by his
   Christian mother to church Sunday by Sunday and learned about
   Christ and accepted Him as his Savior. His father was a heathen
   and worked seven days a week, and forced little Twee-Sungie to
   do the same. The boy was broken-hearted at being deprived of
   attending the church services, but he also felt that he was
   sinning deeply in desecrating God’s day. Calamities came upon
   the family. A younger brother died, another, Twee-Sungie, was
   taken ill. As his strength failed he seemed to lose all desire
   to live. “If I live on in this world, father makes me break
   God’s commandments, and I will only add sin to sin, so it is
   better for me to die and go to Jesus.” He tried to turn his
   father’s thoughts Godward, but the man’s heart was full of evil
   and bitterness. When the boy died, the relatives proposed that
   they bury with him the Testament and hymn-book which he loved,
   for, said they, these books were the cause of his change, and
   if they are put away, his mother will return to the worship of
   spirits. So there lies in the grave of the little boy believer,
   outside the walls of Seoul, the printed page whose message the
   little lad wished so much to obey.

    (1095)


                          FIDELITY, MISTAKEN

A pathetic story is told by the Savannah _News_ of a tragedy
caused by the terrible storm which swept the Southern coast. Captain
Matheson, of the schooner _Nellie Floyd_, is the hero. The story
runs thus:

   When the _Floyd_ foundered and it was certain that she must
   leave her bones in that marine graveyard off the North Carolina
   coast, a life-raft of hatches was constructed, and the crew,
   including the captain, piled on it. As they were about to push
   off, trusting to fortune to be picked up by a passing ship,
   Captain Matheson looked back upon his beloved schooner, then in
   its death-throes. His heart smote him. He felt like a deserter.
   The suffering but inanimate bulk called to him, and he could not
   resist the call. “I am going back, boys,” he said; “good-by, and
   good luck to you.” Then he scrambled back to the decks, by that
   time awash and fast settling. And in sight of the crew the ship
   and her captain went down to their fate.

    (1096)


                           FIDELITY REWARDED

   An English farmer sent his hired boy to prevent a party of
   gentlemen from riding over his fields. The leader of the
   huntsmen peremptorily ordered him to open the gate. Upon his
   refusal, he said shortly, “Boy, do you know who I am? I am the
   Duke of Wellington, and I am not accustomed to disobedience. I
   command you to open this gate.” The boy lifted his cap and stood
   unawed before the “man of iron will,” and said in a firm voice,
   “I am sure the Duke of Wellington would not wish me to disobey
   the orders of my employer, who tells me not to suffer any one
   to pass.” The Duke sat his horse for a moment, and then looking
   stedfastly at the boy, lifted his own hat and replied, “I honor
   the man or boy who is faithful to his duty, and who can neither
   be bribed or frightened into doing wrong.” He handed a bright
   new sovereign to the boy, who had done what Napoleon could not
   do; he had kept back the Duke of Wellington.--JAMES T.
   WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (1097)


                          FIDELITY TO COUNTRY

   In the fight of Trautenau (Austro-Prussian War, 1866), a young
   officer, hard hit, was lying on his back in a ditch, where he
   begged his foes to let him remain. Shortly after, he died. Then
   it was found that, even with his life ebbing fast, his body had
   served to protect the “bit of rag” which on the morning of that
   day had been the standard of the regiment. He had carefully
   folded it up, and laid down upon it to die. “One thing” was in
   that soldier’s heart--to save his country’s colors from capture
   and disgrace.

    (1098)


                           FIDELITY TO DUTY

   The wrecking of the _Maine_, happening at night, was so
   sudden and the convulsion was over in so brief a time, that
   a chance for a display of heroism seemed next to impossible;
   and yet, in the terror of that awful scene, every surviving
   man immediately recovered himself and stood to his discipline.
   Not one comrade was forsaken by another. The last seen of the
   lost lieutenant was at the turret under his charge, weak and
   staggering with his wounds. The marine on duty, true to his
   habit of service, rushed through a dark passage flooded with
   water, and reported that the ship had been blown up and was
   sinking. It did not occur to him to save himself until his duty
   was done. Officers and men, in danger of being swamped by the
   death struggle of the ship, rowed around her, trying to save
   life, and careless of their own. The captain was the last to
   leave the ship. No man sought his own safety at the sacrifice of
   another, nor sought it first.--_Youth’s Companion._

    (1099)


                         FIDELITY TO THE RIGHT

   Lydia M. Child said she would never work on a winning side.
   Lydia Maria Child was a writer in the full tide of popularity
   when she devoted herself to the anti-slavery cause. She was
   subjected to social and literary ostracism. Her books were
   returned, her friends forsook her, and Church and press
   denounced her. But this did not daunt her spirit nor swerve
   her for one instant from the cause she felt was right, and
   she consecrated the rest of her life to its support. Words
   can not describe the deprivation to which she was subjected,
   but she felt no loss. As the inspiration spread, mothers sent
   their children from house to house with her “appeal,” and
   vitally assisted the great movement.--JAMES T. WHITE,
   “Character Lessons.”

    (1100)


   =Fidelity to the Thing Undertaken=--See THOROUGHNESS.


   =Fighting=--See BOYS’ ADJUSTING THEIR TROUBLES; STRATEGY.


   =Fighting, Causes for=--See PEACEMAKER, THE.


   =Fighting Qualities Admired=--See ACCOMPLISHMENT.


                              FIGUREHEADS

The time is ripe for abolishing figureheads in the moral,
ecclesiastical and social world, as well as in the navy.

   Secretary Meyer has approved an order originating in the United
   States Bureau of Construction for the removal from all the
   vessels of the Atlantic fleet of their figureheads. This action
   is based purely on war-service reasons. It is urged that in
   time of peace for maneuver purposes the figureheads, if gilded,
   afford a shining mark to reveal to the constructive enemy the
   whereabouts of the ship and in time of war, if painted with the
   protective war color, the artistic value of the figurehead is
   wholly lost. Furthermore, figureheads cost a good deal of money
   and have a good deal of weight, and serve no practical value
   whatever in warfare.

   Even as far back as the times of the Greeks and Romans, and the
   Phœnicians and Egyptians, figureheads, made often in the image
   of the gods of war, were regarded as important to their triremes
   as oars or rudders. Great Britain has at her navy-yards at
   Southampton, Portsmouth and other points arranged figureheads
   from the old wooden ships of her navies as a feature of naval
   museums. Of course, the figureheads from American battleships
   would be a different thing. Most of them are made of brass, and
   are in some cases fine works of art.

   The figurehead on the _Olympia_, which was designed by St.
   Gaudens, cost $12,000; that on the _Cincinnati_, which
   embodied the design of the _Olympia’s_ figurehead, cost
   $5,700. The figurehead on the cruiser _New York_ is a very
   fine model of the coat-of-arms of the State. Some of the largest
   of the figureheads weigh several tons, and in that respect are
   objectionable.

    (1101)


   =Financially Strong, Morally Weak=--See DRINK, PERIL OF.


                              FINITENESS

    The tiny dew-drops as they rest
    At morning on the flow’ret’s breast
    Are children of the mighty sea,
    Small gleams of its immensity.

    The candle shining in the night
    From the great sun derives its light;
    Its little beams are truly fire,
    And upward to their source aspire.

    No less the humblest son of earth
    May lay a claim to heavenly birth;
    We are not born of senseless clod,
    But children of the living God.

    But after all is said and done,
    The spark of fire is not the sun,
    The drop of dew is not the sea,
    Nor is the best man deity.

    --CHARLES WILLIAM PEARSON, “A Threefold Cord.”

    (1102)


                             FIRE, COST OF

   Fire levies upon Americans each year an enormous tax, calculated
   by government officials at almost a million and a half dollars a
   day and 1,499 lives a year.

   As a result of an investigation by officials of the geological
   survey, it has been ascertained that cheaper fireproof materials
   can be used to advantage in construction, that three to six
   times the necessary amount of material is habitually used in
   structural work, that the building codes are laxly enforced,
   that the fire loss in the United States is eight times as much
   per capita as in any country in Europe, and that the great
   fire waste in the United States is due, principally, to the
   predominance of frame buildings and to defective construction
   and equipment.

   Contrast between the small losses by fire to government
   buildings and the immense losses reported from the country as a
   whole, led the geological survey to make an inquiry.

   Not one person in a thousand knows that the United States
   Government owns buildings that cost more than $300,000,000,
   and is spending $20,000,000 a year for new buildings. It will
   be a surprize to every one, too, to learn that not one cent of
   insurance against loss by fire is carried on these valuable
   buildings. Insurance at the ordinary rate would cost more than
   half a million dollars a year, and the government avoids this
   great tax by constructing buildings that are securely fireproof.

   After a careful investigation, it has been determined that the
   total cost of fires in the United States in 1907, excluding that
   of forest fires and the marine losses (in themselves extensive),
   but including excess cost of fire protection due to bad
   construction and excess premiums over insurance paid, amounted
   to the enormous sum of $456,485,000, a tax on the American
   people exceeding the total value of all the gold, silver, copper
   and petroleum produced in the United States in that year.

   The cost of building construction in 1907 in forty-nine leading
   cities of the United States, reporting a total population of
   less than 18,000,000, amounted to $661,076,286, and the cost of
   building construction for the entire country is conservatively
   estimated at $1,000,000,000. Thus it will be seen that nearly
   one-half of the value of all the new buildings constructed
   within one year is destroyed by fire. The annual fire cost is
   greater than the value of the real property and improvements in
   either Maine, West Virginia, North Carolina, North Dakota, South
   Dakota, Alabama, Louisiana or Montana. In addition to this waste
   of wealth and natural resources, 1,499 persons were killed and
   many thousands were injured in fires in the United States in
   1907.

   The actual fire loss in the United States due to destruction
   of buildings and their contents amounted to $215,084,709 in
   1907. This was $2.51 loss per capita. The per capita loss in
   the cities of the six leading European countries amounted to
   but 33 cents. Comparisons of the total cost of fires, which
   includes the items already stated, show that if buildings in the
   United States were as nearly fireproof as those in Europe, the
   annual fire cost would be $90,000,000 instead of $456,000,000.
   (Text.)--Pittsburg _Leader_.

    (1103)


                            FIRE, HEAVENLY

   It was the first engine on the new railroad running through the
   wilderness. At night, the puffing, snorting monster, belching
   forth fire and smoke, came dashing out of a dark forest with its
   one shining eye in front. As it fairly leapt along the track
   like a thing of life, green reptiles wriggled out of sight,
   vultures fled to the tree-tops, and wild beasts ran snarling
   into the jungle. The fire inside of the engine was what did it.

   When the fire of inspiration gets inside of a man, how much he
   is like a steam-engine. He moves straight ahead, keeps on the
   right track, has his eye single to the forward line and his
   whole soul is full of light and heat. The creatures of darkness
   flee before him as he emerges into the light that shall never
   fade. (Text.)

    (1104)


   =Fire Peril=--See SELF-RESTRAINT.


   =First Aid=--See KNOWLEDGE APPLIED.


                             FIRST FRUITS

   Have you been watching the buds open their eyes these spring
   days? They seem to have come out just to see what is going on
   in this wonderful world. Their number is increasing daily, but
   if you had put your ear close to the first and tiniest bud
   of spring, it would have whispered: “I am a hint of what all
   buds will be when waked out of their wintry sleep.” Will not
   the children sing for joy when the daisies come? Well, if you
   could somehow find the first daisy that peeps through the sod,
   it would say: “I am a sample of what the daisy harvest will be
   when Mother Summer has drest us all up in robes of gold.” On
   the brow of a certain hill, I once enjoyed more than a passing
   acquaintance with a June apple-tree. I used to watch for the
   coming of its fruit as they that watch for the morning. Now,
   there was a tradition that June apples were not good until they
   fell of their own accord. Sometimes, in spying out the land, I
   would find only one apple upon the ground. Of course, one apple
   to a growing boy is little more than a delusion and a snare,
   and it required more than Eve-like fortitude not to shake the
   tree. But after these many years, what I remember most of all
   is the taste of that one first apple. Precious in itself and
   very scarce, so it seemed to me, still it told of the good times
   coming when its luscious, juicy brothers would yield up their
   secrets, too.--F. F. SHANNON.

    (1105)


   =Fishermen Superstitious=--See SUPERSTITIOUS.


                            FISHERS OF MEN

   In the Crystal Palace at Munich there is a little picture called
   “The Red Fisherman.” Satan is elegantly accoutered in red
   costumes, and he is fishing in a pond for men. For his hook he
   has a great variety of bait--gold, money, pearls, crowns, swords
   and wines. Apparently he has been fishing with some success, for
   the bait is much after the sort that men are wont to follow.
   To compete with the prince of evil, Christians who would be
   successful “fishers of men” must use bait that will really
   allure them. (Text.)

    (1106)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In her “Fishin’ Jimmy,” Mrs. Slosson tells of a little
   French-Canadian girl. Her mother was a tramp, and the girl had
   developed into a wild little heathen. The mother fell suddenly
   dead near the village one day, and the child was found clinging
   to her mother’s body. The girl’s soul was shaken by bitter sobs,
   and when they tried to take her away she fought like a young
   tigress. There was in the crowd a small boy who knew “Fishin’
   Jimmy.” With a child’s faith in his big friend, he hurried away
   and brought “Fishin’ Jimmy” to the spot. Very tenderly he lifted
   the child in his arms and took her away. Nobody seems to have
   known anything about the taming of the little savage, but a
   short time afterward she and “Fishin’ Jimmy” were seen on the
   margin of Black Brook, each with a fish-pole. He kept the child
   for weeks, and when she went at last to a good home, she had
   exchanged her wildness for a tender, affectionate nature. Then
   people wondered how the change was wrought. They asked Jimmy,
   but his explanation seemed to breathe an air of mystery. “’Twas
   fishin’ done it,” he said, “on’y fishin’; it allers works. The
   Christian r’liging itself had to begin with fishin’, ye know.”
   Yes, the religion of our Master had to begin with fishing;
   it will continue with fishing, and it will end with fishing,
   for this is indeed life’s divinest task. (Text.)--F. F.
   SHANNON.

    (1107)


                                FITNESS

   One of John Wesley’s friends was terribly shocked to hear
   him preach to a well-groomed congregation a merciless sermon
   from the text, “Ye serpents, ye generation of vipers, how
   can ye escape the damnation of hell?” “Sir,” said Wesley’s
   friend angrily, “such a sermon would have been suitable in
   Billingsgate; but it is highly improper here.” Wesley replied,
   “If I had been in Billingsgate, my text should have been,
   ‘Behold the lamb of God which taketh away the sins of the
   world.’”

    (1108)

   See UNFITNESS.


   =Fitness, Lack of=--See ACCOMMODATION.


   =Flag, Dishonoring the=--See PATRIOTISM, LACK OF.


   =Flag, Rescuing the=--See SYMBOLS, THE VALUE OF.


   =Flaws=--See CHARITY.


   =Flight and Vision=--See ELEVATION AND VISION.


   =Flight of the Soul=--See SOUL FLIGHT.


                         FLOOD-TIDE, SPIRITUAL

   I stood on the coast of England, and looked out over a stretch
   of oozy slime and ill-smelling mud. There were the barges high
   and dry, lying on their sides--no matter what cargo they carried
   or how skilful the captain, they were on the mud. It would have
   availed them nothing to heave the anchor or hoist the sail.
   And I thought, What is the remedy? Were it any use for the
   corporation to pass a by-law that every citizen should bring
   kettles filled with water, and pour it out upon the stretch of
   mud?

   But as I watched I saw the remedy. God turned the tide. In swept
   the waters of the sea, and buried the mud, and then came the
   breath of sweetness and life. And it flowed in about the barges,
   and instantly all was activity. Then heave-ho with the anchor,
   then hoist the sails, then forth upon some errand of good. So
   it is that we stand looking out upon many a dreadful evil which
   fills us with dismay--drunkenness, gambling, impurity. Is there
   any remedy? And the churches, so very respectable, but, alas,
   high and dry on the muddy beach--for these, too, what is the
   remedy? We want the flood-tide--the gracious outpouring of the
   Spirit; then must come the roused and quickened churches, the
   Christians transformed into Christ-like men and women who shall
   demand righteousness.--MARK GUY PEARCE.

    (1109)


   =Flowers=--See SERVICE.


   =Flowers, Fond of=--See GENEROSITY.


                         FLOWERS, MEANINGS OF

   The most remarkable of the floral emblems is the
   passion-flower--the common blue one. Its leaves are thought
   to represent the head of the spear by which Christ’s side was
   pierced; the five points, the five sacred wounds; the tendrils,
   the cords which bound Him; the ten petals, the ten faithful
   apostles, omitting the one who denied Him (Peter); the pillar in
   the center is the cross, the stamens, the hammers; the styles,
   the nails; the circle around the pillar, the crown of thorns;
   the radiance, the glory. It is used on Holy Thursday. The
   fleur-de-lis, or conventional form of the lily, is the symbol
   of the Virgin Mary, adopted in the Middle Ages. It is also an
   emblem of purity. It is always placed by the medieval painters
   in the hand of the Angel Gabriel, and sometimes in the hand
   of the Infant Savior, and of St. Joseph. Lilies-of-the-valley
   are the floral emblem of Christ. “The Rose of Sharon” and the
   “Lily-of-the-valley” are emblems of humility. The rose is also
   an emblem of Christ. The laurel is an emblem of victory and
   glory, also of constancy, as the leaf changes only in death.
   Ivy denotes immortality. The laurestinus has the same meaning.
   (Text.)--_The Decorator and Furnisher._

    (1110)


                         FLUENCY, THE PERIL OF

   The fluent speaker is sometimes reminded that his gifts are
   fatal; and here is a bright tip from the _Atlantic_ to the
   fluent writer: “The writer who is unusually fluent should take
   warning from the instruction which accompanies his fountain pen:
   ‘When this pen flows too freely, it is a sign that it is nearly
   empty and should be filled.’”

    (1111)


                        FLY, THE COMMON HOUSE.

   The house-fly has developed along with the human dwelling.
   If we had no closed-in dwelling places, it is doubtful if
   the house-fly, as at present constituted, could continue to
   exist. It thrives simply because we afford it food, and a
   breeding-place.

   At first he is only a little worm, wriggling his tiny grub-like
   form in some incubating pile of filth, usually the manure pile,
   the outhouse, or the mound of rubbish or garbage in the back
   yard. In this condition he is easily killed, and it should be
   the duty of every person to kill him then. The house-fly could
   not exist if everything were kept perfectly clean and sanitary.
   Exterminate the fly-worms, do away with their breeding places,
   and there will be no flies.

  [Illustration: COMMON HOUSE-FLY]

   The common house-fly is coming to be known as the “typhoid
   fly,” and when the term becomes universal, greater care will
   be exercised in protecting the house from his presence. Flies
   swallow the germs of typhoid in countless millions while feeding
   on excreta. They spread a thousand times more typhoid germs in
   their excreta than on their feet.

   As soon as the fly comes out of his shell he is full grown and
   starts out in the world to make a living, and if your home is
   not clean, he knows it; for the fly can discern an unclean odor
   for miles. A pleasant-smelling substance--the fragrance of
   flowers, geraniums, mignonette, lavender, or any perfumery--will
   drive them away.

   Look at the picture of the fly. The feet, each of them, is
   equipped with two claws and two light-colored pads. The fly
   clings to rough surfaces by means of the claws and to smooth
   surfaces by a combined action of the claws and pads. The fly’s
   pads are covered with thousands of minute short hairs sticky
   at the end. There is no suction--merely adhesion. All his
   grown-up life, the fly has to manage with sticky feet. These are
   constantly becoming clogged with adhering substances, and this
   contamination the fly must assiduously remove if his feet are
   to act properly in supporting him on slippery places. If this
   contamination is too sticky to rub off, the fly laps it off, and
   it then passes off through the stomach.

   The fly lays her eggs in the manure-pile or some other filthy
   place. All the germs--all the microbes--fasten themselves on the
   spongy feet. The fly brings them into the house and wipes them
   off. The fly that you see walking over your food is covered with
   filth and germs.

  [Illustration: TRACKS OF A FLY, SHOWING THE WAY IN WHICH THEY
  SPREAD DISEASE GERMS]

   If there is any dirt in your house, or about your premises, or
   those of your neighbors, he has just come from it. Watch him,
   as he stands on the sugar, industriously wiping his feet. He is
   getting rid of disease germs, rubbing them on the sugar that you
   are going to eat, leaving the poison for you to swallow.

   This does more to spread typhoid-fever, cholera infantum and
   other intestinal diseases than any other cause.

   Intestinal diseases are more frequent whenever and wherever
   flies are most abundant, and they, and not the summer heat,
   are the active agents of the spread of such diseases. There is
   special danger when flies drop into such fluid as milk. This
   forms an ideal culture material for the bacillus. A few germs
   washed from the body of one fly may develop into millions within
   a few hours.--B. M. CLINEDINST, _The Christian
   Herald_.

    (1112)

   See PEST, CONTAGIOUS.


   =Flying-machine=--See TENDENCIES, INHERITED.


                           FOCUSING THE EYE

   I can look one moment at a book six inches from my sight, at
   the next I can with ease look on a tree 200 yards away, and the
   next I can raise my eyes and view the sun millions of miles away
   in the upper heavens. As easily should Christians, compelled
   to look at the things close at hand, lift their thoughts and
   prayers to God. But it is hard to refocus the eye of the soul
   on the divine and eternal if the affections are too much set on
   things on the earth. “Where your treasure is, there will your
   heart be also.” (Text.)

    (1113)


   =Foes Fraternize=--See KINDNESS.


                         FOLD, THE, OF CHRIST

When the Savior proclaimed Himself as the Good Shepherd, He was
not only describing His own character in one of its most beautiful
aspects, but was by implication suggesting very much more. The fact of
a fold implies not only protection and provision, but also restraint,
oversight, authority, and order.

   A traveler who recently arrived in a remote region of Uganda,
   relates how amazed he was to see immense numbers of all sorts
   of wild animals, some in great herds, others in smaller groups.
   That was not a fold. But if the same traveler had looked across
   the great pampas or llanos of South America he would have seen
   vast flocks and herds of horses, cattle, and sheep, roaming
   and grazing over the immense expanse of prairie. It might seem
   to him at first that those thousands of animals were wandering
   about at their own will. But the spectator would quickly
   discover that they were in reality under close attention on the
   part of ranchmen, cowboys, and shepherds. Further, he would find
   that the vast pasture-lands were enclosed by wire. So that here
   is a fold under shepherds.

    (1114)


                           FOLLOWING CHRIST

   A missionary doctor at Shanghai was lying one night in his bed
   fast asleep, when he was awakened by a loud knocking at his
   front door. Even Chinese grown men are very much afraid of the
   dark, so he was very much surprized to see two little lads from
   a village five miles distant standing at his door. They said
   their school-teacher had been taken ill, and they had come for
   some medicine to help him. “Why didn’t some men come on this
   errand?” the missionary asked. “Because they were afraid,” said
   the boys. “Why were not you afraid?” “We were,” said the boys,
   “but we thought it was what Jesus Christ would like us to do, so
   we came.” (Text.)

    (1115)


                          FOLLOWING, INEXACT

   Two persons were walking together one very dark night, when one
   said to the other, who knew the road well, “I shall follow you
   so as to be right.” He soon fell into a ditch and blamed the
   other for his fall. The other said, “Then you did not follow me
   exactly, for I walked safely.” (Text.)

    (1116)


                                 FOLLY

Are there not people comparable to those discribed below, who, instead
of seeking the substance of religion, are content with the mere breath
of theology; and others who, instead of seeing and facing the world’s
evils, “take out their eyes” whenever anything disagreeable happens
along?

   Lucian says the people on the moon lived on frogs that they
   cooked over a fire, but that, instead of eating the flesh, they
   simply breathed in the smell that came from the cooking; and
   that they had a custom of taking their eyes out of their heads
   to save them from seeing anything that might displease them.

    (1117)

   See CARELESSNESS, COST OF; MIRACLES.


                           FOOD AND CULTURE

   A careful study of historical statistics shows the great
   influence that food and the laws of menu have exerted on the
   world’s progress. Did not an uncooked apple drive the human
   race out of Paradise? Did not a mess of pottage differentiate a
   nation? Did not a fit of indigestion lose the battle of Leipsic
   and check the career which threatened to change the face of
   Europe? Did not tea found the American Republic? The history of
   the dinner table is the history of civilization. The culture
   of any people may be gaged by its cooking and the amount of
   sentiment thrown into and around its daily meals.--ETHEL A.
   LENNON, _The Epoch_.

    (1118)


                           FOOD AND EXERCISE

   The instruction of the pulpit and Sunday-school may well be
   likened to the food provided at the family table. It is, very
   likely, abundant in quantity, and nutritious in quality, but
   food without exercise makes the sickly, dyspeptic child. Food
   without exercise in the church is apt to produce no better
   results.

   Even the horses in our stables can not long live without
   exercise. Fill their cribs ever so full of the best feed, they
   must yet do something to keep healthy. This is a natural law,
   which is imperative in the spiritual world. There are a great
   many dyspeptic Christians in all our churches. They are bilious
   and disappointed and hopeless and useless, except as they become
   by their continual growling and fault-finding a means of grace
   to the pastor and other workers. In fact, they have all the
   symptoms of spiritual dyspepsia. Now, the only remedy for this
   disease is spiritual activity. “Go to work,” said the famous
   English doctor to his rich, dyspeptic patient; “go to work. Live
   on sixpence a day, and earn it.”--FRANCIS E. CLARK,
   “Proceedings of the Religious Education Association,” 1903.

    (1119)


   =Food and Work=--See DIET AND ENDURANCE.


   =Food and World’s Progress=--See FOOD AND CULTURE.


   =Food Economy=--See HEALTH, ECONOMIES OF.


   =Food in Prehistoric Times=--See PREHISTORIC WOMAN.


                          FOOLISH CONFIDENCE

   The King of Persia once ordered his visier to make out a list of
   all the fools in his dominions. He did so, and put his majesty’s
   name at the head of them. The king asked him why, and he
   immediately answered: “Because you entrusted a lac of rupees to
   men you don’t know to buy horses for you a thousand miles off,
   and who’ll never come back.” “Ay, but suppose they come back?”
   “Then I shall erase your name and insert theirs.”--_Public
   Opinion._

    (1120)


   =Foolishness Prevented=--See PREVENTION.


                    FOOLISHNESS SOMETIMES IS WISDOM

The wisdom or unwisdom of things is not always apparent on their
face. Paul speaks of “the foolishness of preaching.” Most of the
great inventors and discoverers were not considered wise in the
initial stages of their great careers. Columbus was misunderstood
and ridiculed, Watt was regarded as a dreamer, Morse found few
supporters, Ericsson could not get Government support for building
the _Monitor_, yet all these men were great and wise men. A
curious instance of wise foolishness is that related of an important
advertiser, who said:

   We once hit upon a novel expedient for ascertaining over what
   area our advertisements were read. We published a couple of
   half-column “ads” in which we purposely misstated half a dozen
   historical facts. In less than a week we received between 300
   and 400 letters from all parts of the country from people
   wishing to know why on earth we kept such a consummate fool who
   knew so little about American history. The letters kept pouring
   in for three or four weeks. It was one of the best-paying “ads”
   we ever printed. But we did not repeat our experiment because
   the one I refer to served its purpose. Our letters came from
   schoolboys, girls, professors, clergymen, school-teachers and in
   two instances from eminent men who have a world-wide reputation.

    (1121)


   =Foot-gear=--See BIBLE CUSTOMS TO-DAY.


                              FORBEARANCE

These lines by Harry Larkin, in the _Scrap Book_, seem to breathe
a spirit of self-distrust and forbearance for faults in others
eminently worthy of perpetuation:

    Dare we condemn the ills that others do?
            Dare we condemn?
    Their strength is small, their trials are not few,
    The tide of wrong is difficult to stem,
    And if, to us more clearly than to them
    Is given knowledge of the good and true
    More do they need our help and pity, too!
            Dare we condemn?
    God help us all and lead us day by day!
            God help us all!
    We can not walk alone the perfect way,
    Evil allures us, tempts us and we fall!
    We are but human and our power is small:
    Not one of us may boast, and not a day
    Rolls o’er our heads, but each hath need to pray,
            God help us all! (Text.)

    (1122)

The speaker in the following account was Shang, a converted Manchurian
missionary:

   Over at the “Heavenly Lord Hall” (French mission) I was
   looking at the new building which is being erected. The boys’
   school-teacher was with me. A Roman Catholic objected to our
   presence and struck us both. One of their principal members,
   seeing us insulted, blushed very red, and spoke to the offender.
   But we just came away.

   “What would you like me to do?” I asked. “Shall I write to the
   French priest and complain?”

   “Do nothing at all,” he replied. “Not to requite an insult is a
   blessing.” (Text.)

    (1123)


                            FORCE APPLAUDED

Robert Barr, the author, has a part in an anecdote which throws light
upon England’s present craze for the sinews of war:

   When Mr. Barr was teaching school in Canada, an old college
   friend of his came along with a stereopticon, giving talks
   on Europe. The lecturer always finished with the thrilling
   recital of an anecdote about Queen Victoria. The Alake of
   Abeokuta visited her and asked, “What is the cause of England’s
   greatness?” The good queen handed him a Bible, which was in
   readiness to present him, saying, “This is the reason of
   England’s greatness.” The dramatic device was always exceedingly
   effective.

   When the lecturer came around to Barr’s district, the
   lantern-operator was ill, and Barr was implored to take his
   place, which he consented to do. All went well until the grand
   finale arrived, when Barr maliciously substituted another
   picture for that of the Bible. “This,” cried the fervid orator,
   “is the secret of England’s greatness!” and was horrified on
   glancing up at the screen to see before him a picture of the
   gigantic battleship _Consternation_. The audience, which
   did not know the story of the Bible, cheered vociferously, rose
   to its feet, and sang “Rule Britannia” in a most warlike voice.

    (1124)


                             FORCE, LIVING

   Look at a full-sized oak, the rooted Leviathan of the fields.
   Judging by your senses and by the scales, you would say that the
   substance of the noble tree was its bulk of bark and bough and
   branch and leaves and sap, the cords of woody and moist matter
   that compose it and make it heavy. But really its substance
   is that which makes it an oak, that which weaves its bark and
   glues it to the stem, and wraps its rings of fresh wood around
   the trunk every year, and pushes out its boughs and clothes its
   twigs with digestive leaves and sucks up nutriment from the soil
   continually, and makes the roots clench the ground with their
   fibrous fingers as a purchase against the storm wind, and at
   last holds aloft its tons of matter against the constant tug and
   wrath of gravitation, and swings its Briarean arms in triumph
   over the globe and in defiance of the gale. Were it not for this
   energetic essence that crouches in the acorn and stretches its
   limbs every year, there would be no oak; the matter that clothes
   it would enjoy its stupid slumber; and when the forest monarch
   stands up in his sinewy lordliest pride, let the pervading
   life-power, and its vassal forces that weigh nothing at all, be
   annihilated, and the whole structure would wither in a second to
   inorganic dust. So every gigantic fact in nature is the index
   and vesture of a gigantic force.--THOMAS STARR KING.

    (1125)


   =Force Unavailable=--See LOYALTY.


                            FORCES, LATENT

   Mighty forces often lie latent in nature until peculiar
   conditions elicit them. The trembling dew-drop is an electric
   accumulator, and within its silvery cells is stored a vast
   energy; the rain-drop and the snowflake are the sport of the
   wind, but, converted into steam, we are astonished at their
   potentiality; the tiny seed seems weakness itself, yet,
   beginning to germinate, it rends the rock like a thunderbolt.

Thus is it, only in a far more eminent degree, with human nature
strengthened by the indwelling Spirit of God. In the first hours of
trial we may be bewildered, stunned, staggered, but the latent forces
of our nature, stimulated into action, render us equal to the most
trying situation and the most trying moment.--W. L. WATKINSON,
“The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (1126)


                               FORESIGHT

It would hasten the world’s progress if each generation would consider
the welfare of those to follow as carefully as did the church mentioned
here:

   Anticipating that airships will be in common use in a few years,
   the officials of Wesley Memorial Methodist Church, of Atlanta,
   Georgia, when it was in process of building, instructed the
   building committee to so arrange the roof that there will be no
   difficulty in adapting it to airship landings.

   The officials declared that in future years the communicants of
   the church would sail to and from the services in airships, just
   as they now speed their automobiles. They say that as they are
   erecting a structure that will stand for 100 years it should be
   modern in every respect.

    (1127)

   See PREVISION.


                          FORESIGHT IN BIRDS

   Some red-headed woodpeckers in South Dakota, preferring their
   meat fresh, evolved a way to keep it so which compares favorably
   with the “cold storage” of man. One bird stored nearly one
   hundred grasshoppers in a long crack in a post. All were living
   when discovered, but so tightly wedged that they could not
   escape, and during the long winter of that region it is to be
   presumed the prudent bird had his provision. The observer found
   other places of storage full of grasshoppers, and discovered
   that the red-heads lived upon them nearly all winter.--OLIVE
   THORNE MILLER, “The Bird Our Brother.”

    (1128)


   =Foresight, Lack of=--See PREDICTION, FALSE.


                           FORGERY, LITERARY

   At the end of the eighteenth century the literary forgers were
   especially active. The Ossianic poems, the work of a Highland
   schoolmaster, James McPherson, who pretended to have translated
   them from the Gaelic, raised a controversy that stirred up
   much ill-feeling among the rulers of the literary world of
   England. Then Chatterton, “the sleepless soul that perished in
   its pride,” as Wordsworth sings, with his remarkable forgeries,
   deceived many of the antiquarians, among them Horace Walpole,
   and even Dr. Johnson “wondered how the young whelp could have
   done it.” Another young forger was Ireland, a most remarkable
   impostor, who, at the age of 18, not only forged papers and
   legal documents purporting to be under Shakespeare’s own hand
   and seal, and so deceived some of the most learned Shakespearian
   scholars, but also produced a play “Vortigern,” which he claimed
   was by that great bard, and which was actually performed at
   Sheridan’s theater. Whether or not Payne Collier tried his hand
   at correcting Shakespeare is still a matter of question; if
   guilty, his so-called “corrections” of the poet’s text appear
   but slight deceptions compared to the forgery of a whole play,
   altho these notes proved far more deceptive than the spurious
   drama. Mention must be made of George Paslmanazar, who called
   himself a native of Formosa, invented a Formosan language, and
   wrote a history of the island; of the forgeries of ballads by
   Surtees, who deceived Sir Walter Scott himself, and of the
   forged letters of Shelley, to which Browning, who supposed
   them genuine, wrote an introduction. Instances of this kind of
   forgery have been so frequent of late years that editors and
   publishers are at last beginning to realize that there is often
   less in a name than they suppose.--Boston _Globe_.

    (1129)


                      FORGETFULNESS IN PREACHERS

   Sudden forgetfulness is not an unusual thing in the pulpit.
   Aubrey, the antiquary, says that when he was a freshman at
   college he heard Dr. Sanderson, bishop of Lincoln, well known
   for his work, “Nine Cases of Conscience,” break down in the
   middle of the Lord’s Prayer. Even the great French preacher
   Massillon once stopt in the middle of a sermon from a defect
   of memory, and Massillon himself recorded that the same thing
   happened through an excess of apprehension to two other
   preachers whom he went to hear in different parts of the same
   day. Another French preacher stopt in the middle of his sermon
   and was unable to proceed. The pause was, however, got over
   ingeniously. “Friends,” said he, “I had forgot that a person
   much afflicted is recommended to your immediate prayers.” He
   meant himself. He fell on his knees, and before he rose he
   had recovered the thread of his discourse, which he concluded
   without his want of memory being perceived. _Chambers’s
   Journal._

    (1130)


                      FORGETTING AND REMEMBERING

    Forget each kindness that you do
      As soon as you have done it;
    Forget the praise that falls to you
      The moment you have won it;
    Forget the slander that you hear
      Before you can repeat it;
    Forget each slight, each spite, each sneer,
      Wherever you may meet it.

    Remember every kindness done
      To you, whate’er its measure;
    Remember praise by others won
      And pass it on with pleasure;
    Remember every promise made,
      And keep it to the letter;
    Remember those who lend you aid
      And be a grateful debtor.

    Remember all the happiness
      That comes your way in living;
    Forget each worry and distress,
      Be hopeful and forgiving;
    Remember good, remember truth,
      Remember heaven’s above you,
    And you will find, through age and youth,
      True joys, and hearts to love you.

    --_Youth’s Companion._

    (1131)


   =Forgetting the Past=--See OLD-YEAR MEMORIES.


                              FORGIVENESS

Alfred Austin, Poet Laureate of England, writes this verse on
forgiveness:

    Now bury with the dead years conflicts dead,
    And with fresh days let all begin anew.
    Why longer amid shriveled leaf-drifts tread,
    When buds are swelling, flower-sheaths peeping through?
    Seen through the vista of the vanished years,
    How trivial seem the struggle and the crown,
    How vain past feuds, when reconciling tears
    Course down the channel worn by vanished frown.
    How few mean half the bitterness they speak!
    Words more than feelings keep us still apart,
    And, in the heat of passion and of pique,
    The tongue is far more cruel than the heart,
    Since love alone makes it worth while to live,
    Let all be now forgiven and forgive. (Text.)

    --_The Independent._

    (1132)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In childhood you were guilty of your first deceit. At nightfall,
   with grieved face, your mother asked if you had disobeyed, and
   your lips uttered their first lie. Your father was a just man
   and stern, and he would have lifted the hand in indignation,
   and as a child you would have hardened your heart. But your
   mother, with all-comprehending and healing love, was wiser. She
   met the denial with silence. That night she was, if possible,
   more tender than ever. She lingered a little longer in the room
   of her little child. She smoothed the cool sheets with more
   delicate care, and stooping for the last kiss, she asked,
   “Is there anything more you want to tell me?” Then she went
   out and left you, with that lie, your first lie, to be your
   companion. Do you remember how that lie stood like a ghostly
   fear at the foot of your little trundle-bed? How terror arched
   black and sable wings above your pillow? How you tossed to and
   fro, until at last, broken by your mother’s love, you sprang
   up, felt your way through the dark hall, opened the door, flung
   yourself into your mother’s arms, sobbed out your confession,
   and was forgiven, utterly and squarely and forever forgiven?
   Don’t analyze your mother’s forgiveness--accept it and be healed
   thereby. Redemption is a passion flower, crimsoned with the
   blood of God’s heart. Don’t pick this passion flower to pieces,
   lest you lose it. The roots of God’s tree of life are fed with
   red rain, but the leaves of that tree, and the blossoms, heal
   the wounds of sinners.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1133)

       *       *       *       *       *

Mr. H. J. Whigam, a war correspondent during the Boxer troubles, tells
the following incident:

   A Christian Chinaman was shot by a Cossack, and, as he lay on
   his dying bed, a squad of Cossacks was marched up before him
   that he might identify the murderer. “I am dying,” he said.
   “What does it matter?” “But,” said the officer, “we are not
   going to kill your assailant. We are only going to punish him,
   so that he shall not kill any more of your people.” The dying
   Chinaman opened his weary eyes and made answer: “When he knows
   that I have forgiven him, he will not kill again.”

    (1134)

       *       *       *       *       *

John H. De Forest, in his book, “Sunrise in the Sunrise Kingdom,”
says that the relation of lord and retainer is the main controlling
principle that has shaped the destiny of Japan. It is natural that
ideal lords should have ideal retainers whose lives were devoted to
their masters. He says occasionally this devotion took the form of
rebuking the lord for some unworthy act, even when the advice would
bring death to the faithful servant.

   For example, an aged retainer of a young Shogun saw with deep
   anxiety his youthful lord’s frivolous life, his love of games
   and dances and flowers, and determined to arouse him to his
   duties as a ruler. So going to the palace, he noticed a most
   exquisite dwarfed cherry-tree in full blossom in a splendid
   flowerpot. He rather bluntly asked his lord to give him the
   cherry-tree. On being refused he seized the pot and dashed it,
   flowers and all, on the stone steps, saying: “You care more
   for things than for men.” He expected death, but his lord saw
   the earnest purpose of his servant and repenting of his own
   frivolous life, forgave him.

    (1135)


                      FORGIVENESS, CONDITIONS OF

   Lorenzo de Medici made confession to Savonarola, on his
   death-bed, of three special sins, involving plunder done by
   him to Florence and its citizens. While he confest, Savonarola
   consoled him by repeating, “God is merciful.” When Lorenzo had
   finished, he demanded three things of him before absolution
   could be given. First, that he should have a living faith in
   God’s mercy. Lorenzo replied that he had such a faith. Second,
   that he should restore what he had unjustly acquired. Lorenzo,
   after hesitating, consented. Then Savonarola drew himself up and
   said, “Give Florence back her liberties.” Lorenzo turned his
   face to the wall and uttered not a word, and Savonarola left the
   room without granting the absolution desired. (Text.)

    (1136)


   =Forgiveness of Sin=--See SIN CONSCIOUSNESS.


                          FORGIVENESS, TIMELY

That we should forgive the faults of friends while they are in the
flesh and can appreciate it is the lesson taught by Mrs. Marion Hutson
in this verse:

    Somewhere in the future, my lone grave
    Will lie where flowers bloom and mosses wave,
    And friends will stand beside it, speaking low
    Of things I said and did so long ago.
    My faults and follies all forgotten--dead--
    And buried with me in my lowly bed.
    Oh, loved ones! why not bury them to-day,
    And let me feel forgiven while I may.

    (1137)


                          FORM VERSUS REALITY

   During the Civil War the late Colonel Bouck organized a
   regiment, says _Everybody’s Magazine_, which he controlled
   as a dictator. It was while the army was resting after the
   colonel’s first campaign that an itinerant evangelist wandered
   into camp and, approaching the colonel, asked if he was the
   commanding officer.

   “Ugh!” snorted “Old Gabe,” as he was affectionately called,
   “what do you want?”

   “I am a humble servant of the Lord endeavoring to save the
   souls of the unfortunate. I have just left the camp of the --th
   Massachusetts, where I was instrumental in leading eight men
   into paths of righteousness.”

   “Adjutant,” thundered Colonel Bouck, after a moment’s pause,
   “detail ten men for baptism. No Massachusetts regiment shall
   beat mine for piety.” (Text.)

    (1138)


   =Formation Versus Reformation=--See ECONOMY IN
   WORK.


   =Former Days=--See CRIME IN FORMER DAYS.


                     FORMER LIFE, CONSCIOUSNESS OF

   Our brains are inherited from our ancestors. Why, then, may it
   not be that the human brain is a palimpsest, containing more or
   less faded, yet recoverable records, not only of our entire past
   life, but of the lives of our ancestors to the remotest periods?
   Pythagoras profest a distinct recollection of his former lives;
   the writer of this knows two educated men who have lived before
   in the persons of rather more famous individuals than their
   present representatives; Lumen, in Flammarion’s “Stories,” finds
   that his soul had passed through many previous conditions.
   Indeed, the idea of transmigration, which is a poetic forecast
   of the more scientific doctrine here enunciated, is a very
   familiar one. Coleridge, in his boyhood one day was proceeding
   through the Strand, stretching out his arms as if swimming,
   when a passer-by, feeling a hand at his coat-tail, turned
   rudely round and seized him as a pickpocket. Coleridge denied
   the charge, and confest that he had forgotten his whereabouts
   in the impression that he was Leander swimming across the
   Hellespont--a wretched streetlamp being transformed by his
   imagination into the signal-light of the beautiful priestess of
   Sestos.--_American Notes and Queries._

    (1139)


   =Forms=--See SPIRIT AND FORM.


   =Forms, Value of=--See EXPERIENCE A HARD TEACHER.


   =Fortitude=--See ENDURANCE OF PAIN.


                                FORWARD

    At dawn it called, “Go forward without fear!
    All paths are open; choose ye, glad and free.”
    Through morning’s toilsome climb it urged the plea,
    “Nay, halt not, tho the path ye chose grow dear.”
    At noon it spake aloud, “Make smooth the way
    For other feet. Bend to thy task, tho weight
    Of sorrow press thee. Others dower, tho fate
    Deny thy secret wish.” Through later day
    It warns, “Climb on! Heights woo! The waning light
    Bids haste! Yet scorn not those who lag behind,
    Confused by lengthening rays that clear thy sight,
    These, too, have striv’n all day their way to find.”
    At eve, when flaming sunset fades, O hear
    Dawn’s echoing call, “Go forward without fear.”

    --ANNA GARLIN SPENCER.

    (1140)


   =Forward Look, A=--See PREVISION.


                           FORWARD, PRESSING

In a poem, “The Second Mile,” by Dr. Oakley E. Van Slyke, occurs the
following verse:

    Be mine, dear Lord, to think not what I must,
    But of the power bequeathed to me in trust.
    Be mine, I pray, to go the second mile,
    Do better than I need to all the while.

    (1141)


                              FOUNDATIONS

   All northern Italy from Genoa to Venice was shaken not long
   ago by a great earthquake shock. The seismic disturbances
   continued at intervals during several days. The people were
   terror-stricken, fearing the worst. It was significant that
   while the shock was severely felt on both sides of the Adriatic,
   it was scarcely perceptible in Venice, due probably to the fact
   that much care, forethought and skill had been exercised in
   laying the city’s foundations. Every building of importance is
   supported by piles driven from sixty to one hundred feet into
   the mud of the lagoons.

   In character building our only safety lies in sure foundation.
   (Text.)

    (1142)


                          FOUNDATIONS, FAULTY

   The stone archway spanning a culvert under a railway at a
   certain point gave way and tumbled in, permitting the tracks to
   settle and sending trains away around by another line. Workmen
   came to study the cause of the trouble. One thought that the
   cement with which the stones had been laid was not properly
   mixed. Another was of the opinion that the mortar had been
   chilled, as the wall was laid up in cold weather. Still another
   examined the keystone and found fault with its shape. “The
   form of that stone was enough to bring the archway down!” he
   declared. “Just look at it! The man who made it never knew what
   a keystone is for!”

   So the criticism went on. At last a quiet man who had been
   digging away at the foundation of things made the statement:
   “It was not the keystone; that is all right. The foundation
   gave way, and the wall could not help falling! It was the
   foundation!” And that was the verdict which stood. The very
   first stones had been laid on soft earth.

    (1143)


                          FOUNDATIONS, SECURE

   One stands before some of the palaces of the old world that
   have endured for more than one thousand years without a crack
   or seam, in perfect admiration. The Pantheon at Rome stands
   just as it did more than two thousand years ago. This would be
   impossible had not its foundations been right. The Rialto Bridge
   that spans the Grand Canal in Venice was erected in 1588. It
   has stood as it now stands for 320 years, but that bridge rests
   on 12,000 piles driven deeply into the soil. What is true of
   buildings is true also of life.--GEORGE B. VOSBURGH.

    (1144)


                        FOUNTAINS, EVER FLOWING

   “To-day’s wealth may be to-morrow’s poverty; to-day’s health,
   to-morrow’s sickness; to-day’s happy companionship of love,
   to-morrow’s aching solitude of heart; but to-day’s God will be
   to-morrow’s God, to-day’s Christ will be to-morrow’s Christ.
   Other fountains may dry up in heat or freeze in winter, but
   this knows no change; ‘in summer and winter it shall be.’ Other
   fountains may sink low in their basins after much drawing, but
   this is ever full, and after a thousand generations have drawn
   from its stream is broad and deep as ever. Other fountains may
   be left behind on the march, and the wells and palm-trees of
   each Elim on our road be succeeded by a dry and thirsty land
   where no water is, but this spring follows us all through the
   wilderness, and makes music and spreads freshness ever by our
   path.”--ALEXANDER MCLAREN.

    (1145)


   =Fragility=--See OSSIFICATION; PRESERVATION.


   =Fragments Reconstituted=--See BEAUTY FROM FRAGMENTS.


   =Fragrance=--See CHARACTER IMPARTED.


   =Fragrance from Storm=--See AFFLICTION PRODUCING VIRTUE.


   =Frankness=--See RETORT, A.


                              FRATERNITY

   When you describe to a blind man what strikes you on the
   very instant, you really give him the illusion of light. He
   sees through your eyes. There is in his soul both light and
   color. The green swell of the forest, the yellow waves of the
   harvests, that stream that unrolls yonder, across the fields,
   like a ribbon of silver; that river whose waters are transmuted
   into liquid gold in the brazier of the setting sun, all this
   shines before his inward eye. And yet it is not this that most
   delights the blind man. What moves him, transports him, not
   only if he is your father, your son, your friend, but even a
   simple traveling companion, is that he sees through you; that,
   for an hour, you realize the holy law that man owes himself to
   man, and that he lives, above all, by your bounty and fraternal
   exchange.--CHARLES WAGNER, “The Gospel of Life.”

    (1146)


                         FRAUD BY ELECTRICITY

   It was noticed some years ago that a large number of light gold
   coins were in circulation, and the discovery was made that the
   “sweating” was accomplished by electrolysis. The scientific
   swindler constructed an electro-deposition plant, using a
   ten-dollar gold piece as an anode and a small metal plate as a
   cathode. The battery was “set in motion” and presto! in a few
   minutes fifty cents’ worth of gold was deposited on the metal
   plate, and the gold coin was worth so much less than before. As
   the gold was removed equally from all parts of the surface of
   the coin, its appearance was scarcely altered by the process,
   only an expert being able to detect the slight blurring of the
   design and lettering.--_Electrical Review._

    (1147)


                            FREEDOM CHOSEN

   After our Civil War a white man suggested to a negro that he
   had been better off as a slave. He had had more to eat and been
   more certain of it, a better cabin and less concern about it,
   better clothes and more of them. The negro agreed, and added,
   “The place is still open if you want it, sir. As for me, I had
   rather starve and go cold and naked, and be free.” It is quite
   impossible for some men to understand that. For that is the
   heart of liberty. Eating and clothing and dwelling have become
   all important to some men, and compared with them liberty is not
   worth having. But there are hearts which have tasted slavery and
   so know the zest of freedom. (Text.)--C. B. MCAFEE.

    (1148)


                       FREEDOM, GOD RESPECTS OUR

   God, having made man a free moral agent, is a wooer, not a
   coercionist. If the knowledge of the sacrifice made for man’s
   redemption will not win man’s love, God will not apply physical
   force to compel acceptance, love, and obedience. A military
   chieftain, tho holding the lives of his soldiers in his hands,
   exhibits his greatest power by refusing to exercise compulsion,
   and realizes that the best service rendered is that which is
   prompted by love of the commander. Thus God shows His almighty
   power.

    (1149)


                        FREEDOM, GRATITUDE FOR

   On the 30th of August, 1833, the Emancipation Act passed the
   House of Lords. It was declared that all children under six
   years old should be free on the 1st of August, 1834; that all
   other slaves should be registered as apprenticed laborers and be
   compelled to labor for their owners for a few years--the time
   was shortened soon after. Antigua alone has the honor of having
   said, “We will have no apprentices; all shall be free.”

   Meanwhile in all the islands dismal prophecies were made by
   the planters of rapine and ruin and negro risings; but the
   missionaries were busy teaching the poor blacks how to receive
   the coming boon of freedom. The eve of that momentous day, the
   1st of August, was kept by the slave population of Antigua as
   a watch-night in church and chapel. They had been advised to
   await the midnight hour on their knees with prayers and hymns of
   gratitude. So, at the first stroke of midnight in the island of
   Antigua, all fell upon their knees, and nothing was heard but
   the slow booming of the cathedral bell, save here and there an
   hysteric sob from some overwrought slave-girl. The final stroke
   sounded through the clear air, and still the immense crowd kept
   silence, as tho they could not realize that they had become
   free. Then a strange thing happened: One awful peal of thunder
   rattled and crashed from pole to pole, and flash upon flash of
   lightning seemed to put out the feeble lights of cathedral,
   church and chapel.

   God had spoken! The kneeling crowds sprang to their feet with a
   shout of joy; they laughed, they cried, they tossed brown arms
   abroad, and embraced one another in wild and passionate emotion;
   then they remembered God once more and prayed aloud.--EDWARD
   GILLIATT, “Heroes of Modern Crusades.”

    (1150)


                            FREEDOM OF SOUL

   What a remarkable invention is the airship! In it are wrapt
   almost boundless possibilities for good or evil. The Christian
   bound on his sacred mission may yet be able to use the viewless
   air for his highway, transport himself through its soundless
   solitudes, hundreds of miles before the dawning. He may
   transport himself with ease from place to place and behold
   all the marvels of creation on earth, having cut loose from
   gravitation and being free in the infinite ocean of starlight
   and sunlight.

   The ideal of man is perfect freedom of the soul. (Text.)

    (1151)


                          FREEDOM OR SLAVERY

   I was in conversation with a man a few days ago, and we were
   talking with reference to evil propensities and signing pledges
   and forming firm resolutions to quit bad habits. He said, “I
   won’t sign a pledge because I won’t sign away my liberty.” I
   asked him what liberty he meant, and he said: “Liberty to do as
   I please.” I said to him, “That is not liberty. Any man that
   does as he pleases, independent of physical, moral and divine
   law, is a miserable slave.”--U. S. SHRIMP, _Church
   Advocate_.

    (1152)


   =Freedom, Religious=--See LIBERTY, INDIVIDUAL.


   =Freedom, The Appeal of=--See EARNESTNESS.


                         FREEDOM THROUGH DRILL

R. H. Haweis gives an experience that would be good for all learners:

   He (Oury) taught me Rode’s Air in G--that beautiful melody
   which has been, with its well-known variations, the _pièce de
   résistance_ of so many generations of violinists and soprani. I
   was drilled in every note, the bowing was rigidly fixt for me,
   the whole piece was marked, bar by bar, with slur, _p_ and _f_,
   _rall._ and _crescendo_. I was not allowed to depart a hair’s
   breadth from rule. When I could do this easily and accurately,
   Oury surprized me one day by saying:

   “Now you can play it as you like; you need not attend to a
   single mark!”

   “How so?” I said.

   “Don’t you see,” he said, “the marks don’t signify: that is
   only one way of playing it. If you have any music in you, you
   can play it in a dozen other ways. Now, I will make it equally
   good,” and he took the violin and played it through, reversing
   as nearly as possible all the _p’s_ and _f’s_, “bowing” the slur
   and slurring the “bow,” and it sounded just as well. I never
   forgot that lesson.

    (1153)


   =Free Will=--See WILL, THE.


                      FRICTION DISSIPATING FORCE

An English writer says:

   Three or four years ago an attempt was made to supersede the
   water-carts of London by laying down on each side of the road a
   horizontal pipe, perforated with a row of holes opening toward
   the horse-way. The water was to be turned on, and from these
   holes it was to jet out to the middle of the road from each
   side, and thus water it all. I watched the experiment made near
   the Bank of England.

   Instead of spouting across the road from all these holes, as
   it should have done from any one of them, it merely dribbled;
   the reason being that, in order to supply them all, the water
   must run through the whole of the long pipe with considerable
   velocity, and the viscosity and friction to be overcome in doing
   this nearly exhausted the whole force of water-head pressure.
   Many other similar blunders have been made by those who have
   sought to convey water-power to a distance by means of a pipe of
   such diameter as should demand a rapid flow through a long pipe.

This is a clear illustration of friction dissipating force. How much
life force needed for constructive works of righteousness is wasted by
mere friction.

    (1154)


                            FRIEND, A TRUE

At a “home” in the country which the children of the slums are allowed
to visit for a short time in the summer, the following incident
occurred. A party of about one hundred youngsters was returning to the
city. The attendant noticed that one of the girls, Rosie, was walking
rather clumsily. This is the way the New York _Tribune_ tells the
story:

   When the attendant heard a chorus of gibes all aimed at little
   Rosie, she saw that the girl was wearing a pair of shoes of
   large size. Then the attendant remembered that Rosie had had a
   new pair of shoes, and the little girl was asked about it.

   “Well,” said Rosie, “you see, the shoes ain’t mine. They’re
   Katie’s. I know they’re awful big, but her mama ain’t had any
   work lately, so she couldn’t buy her a new pair. She just gave
   her own shoes to Katie.

   “Katie felt awful bad about it, and cried all the way to the
   station. The girls all laughed at her. I just lent her my new
   ones and took hers.

   “You see, teacher,” said Rosie, raising her eyes to the
   attendant’s face, “Katie’s my friend.”

    (1155)


   =Friend, The, of Animals=--See KINDNESS, THE POWER OF.


                         FRIEND, THE ORPHAN’S

   Margaret Gaffney was given the name of the “Orphans’ Friend.”
   She was an orphan left to the care of Welsh people who were
   very poor. Charity was the very spring of her being. Having
   lost her husband, her childless heart caused her to enter the
   Paydros Orphan Asylum, for which she solicited stores, wheeling
   them herself in a wheelbarrow when she had no other means of
   conveyance. She built another orphan asylum, and started a dairy
   to help its support. Later she established a bakery. She would
   not indulge herself in anything unnecessary because there “was
   so much suffering in the world.” New Orleans owes to this poor,
   ignorant woman her three largest homes for children, which are
   for orphans, black or white, irrespective of denomination.
   When the Fourth Louisiana Regiment was taken captive to New
   Orleans, Margaret went to the fort with a load of bread, and
   when ordered to halt, she replied, “What for?” When challenged,
   she jumped out of the wagon, grabbed the sentinel in her arms,
   and forcibly set him out of her path, and amid the cheers of the
   men, entered the fort with her baskets of bread. Whenever the
   Mississippi overflowed, her boat, loaded with bread, went daily
   to the submerged districts, feeding the needy. This poor woman
   was followed to her grave by the entire municipal government,
   merchants, professional men, and the children of eleven orphan
   asylums, who uncovered their heads to Margaret, the first woman
   in this country to be honored by the erection of a marble statue
   to her memory.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (1156)


                        FRIEND, THE SYMPATHETIC

   Angels are good companions for a crisis, but for every-day use
   the warm, touchable, sympathetic friend is as necessary as
   oxygen to the blood.--CAMDEN M. COBERN.

    (1157)


                          FRIEND, VALUE OF A

   “What is the secret of your life?” asked Mrs. Browning of
   Charles Kingsley; “tell me, that I may make mine beautiful,
   too.” He replied, “I had a friend.” Somewhere in her
   “Middlemarch,” George Eliot puts it well: “There are natures in
   which, if they love us, we are conscious of having a sort of
   baptism and consecration; they bind us over to rectitude and
   purity by their pure belief about us; and our sins become the
   worst kind of sacrilege, which tears down the invisible altar of
   trust.”--WILLIAM C. GANNETT.

    (1158)


                             FRIENDLINESS

   It is related of Alexander the Great, that he won the hearts
   of his soldiers by calling them “his fellow footmen.” And of
   Aristotle, the better to instruct his hearers, that he read not
   to them--as other philosophers used to do--from a lofty seat,
   but walking and talking with them familiarly, as with friends,
   in Apollo’s porch; so he made them great philosophers. (Text.)

    (1159)


   =Friends and Foes Meet=--See AMITY AFTER WAR.


   =Friends Cancelling Debt=--See KINDNESS.


                          FRIENDS, CHOICE OF

The following poem was written by His Majesty Mutsuhito, the Emperor
of Japan, for the students at the Peeresses’ School of Tokyo. It is
translated by Arthur Lloyd:

    The water placed in goblet, bowl or cup
    Changes its form to its receptacle;
    And so our plastic souls take various shapes
    And characters of good or ill, to fit
    The good or evil in the friends we choose.
    Therefore, be ever careful in your choice of friends,
    And let your special love be given to those
    Whose strength of character may prove the whip,
    That drives you ever to fair wisdom’s goal.
    (Text.)--_The Independent._

    (1160)


   =Friends in Heaven=--See HEAVEN, FRIENDS IN.


                           FRIENDS, KEEPING

Somebody once asked the famous Roman Atticus how he managed to keep
his friends up to the end of his life. His simple reply was, “I never
expected anything from them.”

   It is difficult, no doubt to maintain during outbursts of
   passion the serene indulgence peculiar to friendship, but
   without attaining to the state of Atticus, who expected nothing,
   where the desire to give much dominates a soul, the sting of
   wounded vanity would not be felt in the flesh, for wounded
   vanity would change its object, making it a matter of pride
   to give, and not receive.--DORA MELEGARI, “Makers of
   Sorrow and Makers of Joy.”

    (1161)


                              FRIENDSHIP

John Macy says in _The Atlantic Monthly_:

   Poe lived, worked, and died in such intellectual solitude that
   Griswold could write immediately after his death that he left
   few friends. Tho at the height of his career in New York,
   “between the appearance of ‘The Raven’ and the time when poverty
   and illness claimed him irrevocably, he appears as a lion in
   gatherings of the literati, yet it is asserted that among them
   his only affectionate friends were two or three women.”

No brilliant fame can atone for the lack of true friendships.

    (1162)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A young man who had left home to enter business, and who had
   only a single acquaintance in the town where he was newly
   employed, was arrested upon the charge of stealing a pocketbook
   containing $1,000 from the desk of a man whom he had called
   upon in a business way the previous day. He was in a desperate
   plight, for circumstances were strongly against him. The man
   stated that he had the pocketbook just a few minutes before
   the young man came in, and upon looking for it immediately
   afterward, it was gone, and nobody else had been in the room.
   The young man’s only hope was in the establishment of a
   previous good character, and he had no one to whom he could
   at the moment apply. Not knowing what to do he sent for his
   single acquaintance, and told him of his predicament and the
   circumstances of the whole affair, and said, “Of course, you
   have only my word that I did not take the pocketbook, but it
   is the truth.” His acquaintance looked at him critically for a
   few minutes, and then said, “No, I don’t believe you did take
   it, and I am going to stand by you in this, and see that you
   are cleared.” The new acquaintance immediately gave bail, and
   told him to go back to work, and say nothing. Then he sent to
   the home of the boy, and arranged to have some influential
   men of the place come on at his own expense to testify to the
   character of his friend, and upon the day of trial, secured his
   honorable discharge. When asked why he did all this he replied,
   “Why, I am your friend.” This was his idea of the meaning of a
   friend.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (1163)

   See KINDNESS.


   =Friendship and Peace=--See PEACE PACT.


                      FRIENDSHIP, CONCEPTIONS OF

   The Greek idea of friendship is represented by the figure of
   a girl, with uncovered head; one hand on her heart, the other
   resting on an elm struck by a thunderbolt, and about which a
   vine, heavy with grapes, is entwined. Her dress was high and
   close fitting, her attitude chaste. The Roman conception of
   friendship was more complicated and modern. The girl’s dress
   was cut _á la vierge_, her head crowned with myrtle and
   pomegranate flowers; she held in her hand two hearts enchained.
   On the fringe of her tunic was written, “Life and death”; on her
   forehead were the words, “Summer and winter.” With her right
   hand she pointed to her left side; exposed over heart and on
   it was written, “From far and near.”--DORA MELEGARI,
   “Makers of Sorrow and Makers of Joy.”

    (1164)


                          FRIENDSHIP, PERFECT

William Anderson tells us what true friendship is in this poem:

    True friendship is a perfect, priceless gem.
      Its greatest glory is its flawlessness.
    My friends must give to me, as I to them,
      Their best or nothing--I’ll accept no less.

    I want the perfect music, or no song;
      I want the perfect love, or none at all;
    Right is not right when coupled with a wrong;
      Sweet is not sweet when touched with taint of gall.

    (1165)


                          FRIENDSHIP, SELFISH

The motives of some men in cultivating friendships may be compared to
that of the foxes mentioned below:

   To see a fox get round the farmer’s dogs, in order to make
   friends with them, is one of the most astonishing revelations of
   character. Usually the dogs seem hardly to know at first what to
   make of his advances, but the fox is pretty certain to succeed
   in bringing him to his side in the end, and after that they may
   be seen playing together day after day.--WITMER STONE
   and WILLIAM EVERETT CRAM, “American Animals.”

    (1166)


                                FRIGHT

   One of the numerous incidents connected with the Sicilian
   earthquake was the escape of an artilleryman named Gashane
   Valente at Messina which was remarkable. A tidal-wave swept
   him from inside the barracks out to sea, where a fishing boat
   rescued him. He was landed near Messina, and ran without
   stopping eleven hours, reaching Acireale, fifty-five miles away.
   Terror gave him the necessary endurance.

    (1167)


   =Frowns=--See SMILES AND FROWNS.


   =Fructification, Spiritual=--See LIFE, NEW, FROM GOD.


                            FRUIT AND SOIL

   A choice variety of plum was purchased and set out in a
   certain garden. When the tree came to maturity, to the keen
   disappointment of the owner, there was no fruit on its branches.
   Investigation showed that the fault was not in the tree. The
   land in which it was planted proved to be barren and lacking in
   proper nourishment.

   A tree growing in poor soil can not bear, because it requires
   all the strength it can extract from the soil to barely sustain
   its life. It takes all the virtue there is in the soil to
   support the head and foliage so that the fruit is literally
   starved out.

There are church-members who branch into Christian profession but who
are rooted in the world. Such will bring forth nothing but leaves.
(Text.)

    (1168)


                             FRUIT-BEARING

   Suppose the tree should say: “My roots are strong, my boughs
   elastic and tough, firm against the stroke of wind and storm.
   Look at my bark, how smooth and fresh; and where is there a
   tree whose tides of sap are fuller or richer? What leaves,
   too, are these that I have woven out of the threads of sun and
   soil! Little wonder that the birds build nests in my branches,
   while the cattle find shade beneath my boughs.” Well, this
   is a good argument--for an apple-tree--but a poor one for a
   man. The hungry farmer-boy does not leap the fence on his way
   to the apple-tree looking for apple-sap or apple-boughs or
   apple-leaves--he is looking for apples. And God has built this
   world, not for the root moralities that support man. Industry
   is good--it is good not to lie and not to steal, and not to
   kill and not to perjure, but these beginnings are fundamental
   only, the man must go on from the leaf to the fruit. The
   fruit is truth in the inner parts, justice, measured by God’s
   standard, and mercy that tempers justice, love, joy, peace,
   long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith that trusts, and
   will not be confounded. (Text.)--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1169)


                          FRUIT LIKE THE TREE

   Tho I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and tho I give my
   body to be burned, and have not love, it profiteth me nothing.
   In so giving and so doing, I would be acting merely in a way
   analogous to the jackdaw that would expect to be turned into
   a peacock by sticking a few peacock’s feathers into its black
   coat. This maneuver would not convert the jackdaw into a
   peacock; it would be still a jackdaw even after it had covered
   itself all over with peacock’s feathers. Let it first turn,
   if possible, into a peacock, and then peacock’s feathers
   will grow naturally upon it; its black coat will then soon
   be radically changed. To adopt the simile of our Lord, first
   make the tree good, and then its fruit will be good; you can
   not produce heaven’s fruit until the tree be first planted in
   heaven.--ALEXANDER MILLER, “Heaven and Hell Here.”

    (1170)


                             FRUITFULNESS

   The chayote is in many particulars the most remarkable plant in
   the vegetable kingdom. It is entirely immune from fungi, and
   is the only plant known which insects do not attack. Altho it
   bears fruit, it is a vine. Its growth is surprizingly rapid. It
   is a perennial and clambers about, clings to and covers fence,
   barn, tallest tree--anything. It will often bear as many as five
   hundred fruits, some of them weighing no less than three pounds.
   It blossoms and ripens fruit every month in the year. It is
   palatable and nutritious. Its flowers are rich in nectar and a
   prolific source of honey. (Text.)

    (1171)


   =Fruits, First=--See FIRST FRUITS.


                       FULFILMENT DISAPPOINTING

It is the way with all ambitions not to satisfy when they are achieved.
Here is a poem by Grantland Rice teaching this truth:

    The little boy smiled in his sleep that night,
      As he wandered to Twilight Town;
    And his face lit up with a heavenly light
      Through the shadows that drifted down;
    But he woke next morning with tear-stained eye
      In the light of the gray dawn’s gleam,
    And out from the stillness we heard him cry,
      “I’ve lost my dream--my dream!”

    And he told us then, in his childish way,
      Of the wonderful dream he’d known,
    He had wandered away from the land of play
      To the distant Land of the Grown;
    He had won his share of the fame and fight
      In the struggle and toil of men;
    And he sobbed and sighed in the breaking light,
      “I want my dream again!”

    As the years passed by the little boy grew
      Till he came to the Land of the Grown;
    And the dream of his early youth came true--
      The dream that he thought had flown;
    Yet once again he smiled in his sleep--
      Smiled on till the gray dawn’s gleam
    When those near by might have heard him weep:
      “I want my dream--my dream!”

    For he dreamed of the yesterdays of youth,
      And the smile on a mother’s face;
    A hearth of old-time faith and truth
      In the light of an old home place;
    He had won his share of the fame and fight
      In the struggle and toil of men--
    Yet he sobbed and sighed, in the breaking light:
      “I want my dream again!”

    --_The Tennesseean._

    (1172)


                           FULNESS, CHRIST’S

The late Charles Cuthbert Hall said:

   I recall the wonder and delight with which I saw the ocean
   tide come up the Bay of Fundy and fill the empty river-bed.
   Through the hours of the ebb, the Nova Scotian rivers dwindled
   and shrank within their banks. Broad and barren reaches of
   sand exposed themselves; ships listed heavily on their sides,
   deserted by the feeble stream trickling in mid-channel. Then
   came the tide up the Bay of Fundy, up from the abundance of
   the unfathomable sea. You could hear it coming with a distant
   sound of motion and life and unmeasured power. You could see
   it coming, with a pure white girdle of foam, that looked in
   sunlight like a zone of fire. It entered the river-bed; it
   filled the empty channel as one fills a pitcher at the fountain;
   it covered the barren sands with motion and sparkling life;
   it lifted the heavy ships, gave back to them their rights of
   buoyancy, set them free upon the broad water-way of world-wide
   opportunity; it changed the very face of the land from sadness
   and apathy and dulness to animation and color and glittering
   activity. So Christ comes into empty human lives, and fills
   them with His fulness, which is the very fulness of God. The
   difference between a life without Christ and a life with Christ
   is the difference between ebb and flood: the one is growing
   emptier, the other is growing fuller.

    (1173)


                    FUNCTIONS AND GIFTS IN THE EAST

   The function in the non-Christian world must be regarded,
   because there etiquette and propriety are on dress parade.
   Presents are another difficulty. Be sure to look into this
   matter, and do not think that you are doing all that is required
   when you send a present. You have to be very particular about
   the number of presents, about the manner in which they are
   wrapt, about their proper delivering, etc. Receiving gifts is
   quite as serious a problem to the person who desires to rank as
   polite, as is the making of presents.--H. P. BEACH,
   “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (1174)


                             FUNDAMENTALS

Every life is dominated by a fundamental note, good or bad. All its
overtones will ultimately correspond.

   The wires strung from pole to pole are set into oscillation
   by the wind, somewhat as the strings of a violin are set into
   vibration by the bow. In skilful hands the violin bow can be
   made to bring forth from the string one powerful fundamental
   note and several overtones of higher pitch, but in perfect
   harmony with the fundamental. But the wind is a very skilful
   performer, and brings forth at the same time not only the
   deepest fundamental bass note of the wire, but a great variety
   of overtones, both harmonious and discordant. In fact, the many
   wires strung overhead, from pole to pole, constitute splendid
   Eolian harps.--_Telephony._

    (1175)

   See VITAL FAITHS.


                       FURY INCREASING STRENGTH

   The almost superhuman pluck of certain prize-fighting
   animals--bulldogs and badgers, for instance--may in reality be
   founded on a temporary insensibility to pain, and the evident
   advantages of that negative endowment suggest its development by
   the agency of natural selection. Individuals gifted with that
   faculty of emotional anesthesia were less likely to succumb to
   the terrors of a life-and-death struggle, and therefore more
   apt to prevail in that struggle for existence which in a state
   of nature is implied by the frequent necessity of contesting
   the physical superiority of sexual rivals or alien antagonists.
   The invigorating tendency of certain passions may have been
   developed in a similar manner. The formidable and, indeed, quite
   abnormal strength of infuriated man is so well known that even
   an athlete will hesitate to try conclusions with an adversary
   under the influence of raging passions, and in such moments
   fury-inspired vigor has often accomplished feats which afterward
   surprized even the hero of the exploit. “The saints do help a
   man in a desperate plight,” said an old Creole planter, who had
   rescued his family from the attack of a brutal negro. The same
   strength-sustaining influence of fury may explain the almost
   miraculous victories of small bodies of desperate men over large
   armies of better-armed foes, as in the three murderous battles
   which the rustic avengers of John Huss gained against the
   ironclad legions of his enemies, or in that still less expected
   defeat of an entire Russian army by a few hundred followers of
   the hero-prophet Shamyl. Religious frenzy has often produced a
   similar effect, and on any other theory only a miracle could
   explain the almost constant victories of the Saracens, who, in
   spite of determined resistance of millions of better disciplined
   and physically superior opponents, succeeded in less than a
   century in extending their empire from the Ganges to the Bay of
   Biscay.--FELIX OSWALD, _The Open Court_.

    (1176)


                          FUTURE DISCOVERIES

   In view of the marvelous discoveries which the last half century
   has witnessed no one can doubt that there is quite as much that
   is marvelous to come. The dweller on the planet in the year
   2000 will undoubtedly look back on these times with a good deal
   of the same feeling that we of the present day have for those
   who lived in the days of the stage-coach and the weekly mail;
   and it is quite likely that the philosopher of that period will
   speak of ours as “the good old times.” But however that may
   be, and whatever the advance they have made in our condition,
   we may be sure that they will find all their improvements as
   necessary to existence as we now find the telegraph and railroad
   and electric. If they have established intercommunication
   between the planets, they will be just as dependent on those new
   features as we are on the latest appliances of our civilization.
   And if the air line to Jupiter should break down in such a way
   as to cripple the Mars cut-off or the branch to Saturn, the
   public will be just as much hindered and embarrassed as we are
   by a wire-disabling blizzard in the commercial metropolis or a
   fire in a central telegraph office.--Detroit _Free Press_.

    (1177)


   =Future, Forcasting the=--See PREVISION.


                              FUTURE LIFE

   I trace the river, swelling out by degrees from the spring
   to a rill, from the rill to a brook, from the brook to a
   mill-stream, from the stream to a river, taking into itself all
   minor tributaries, and rolling on with a current that bears the
   ship and the steamboat with the easiest majesty, still cleaving
   its way through meadow and hill, through forest and mountain,
   untroubled toward the sea. Shall I believe, then, that when that
   river has rounded a promontory, beyond which, as yet, I can not
   follow it, it is all at once dissolved into mist? or emptied
   into a cavern so deep and obscure that no trace of the stream
   reappears upon the earth? Nay, but I know--tho I have not seen
   the end, it is as certain to me as if already my vision embraced
   it--that that river flows on continuous to the ocean, and
   mingles its wave with all the waters that gird the globe, and
   are drawn into the skies!

   And so I know that the great soul of man, aspiring from its
   birth to a nobler development, still matching its companions,
   still surpassing its circumstances, with ideas within it which
   no present can unfold, and with a deep self-centered force,
   to which the body is only an accident, will still go on when
   this body has decayed, and be only nobler and princelier in
   each power when mingling with that illustrious concourse of
   intelligent and pure beings who already have been gathered in
   the courts of the future! It were to reverse and violently
   over-ride every palpable probability, to deny or to doubt this!
   (Text.)--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (1178)

       *       *       *       *       *

    Sometime--dear hands shall clasp our own once more,
    And hearts that touched our hearts long years before
    Shall come to meet us in the morning land;
    And then, at last, our souls shall understand
    How, tho He hid His meaning from our sight,
    Yet God was always true and always right;
    And how, tho smiles were often changed for tears,
    Along this tangled pathway of the years,
    Yet only so these lives of yours and mine
    Have caught the likeness of the life divine. (Text.)

    (1179)


   =Future Life, Pledge of=--See LIFE A CYCLE.


                         FUTURE POSSIBILITIES

   The field of mental effort is not measurable, and so far as
   we know, is unlimited. To fix its bounds would be to set an
   arbitrary limit to the progress of the human race. In science,
   art, literature--in all that exalts and embellishes life--the
   space yet available for progress comes as near infinitude as
   anything we are capable of conceiving. To one who stands in
   a valley, the horizon is near; let him climb a hill, and his
   view is expanded. When he attains a greater height the prospect
   appears still wider. The inventive genius of the world is
   rising higher and higher every day. Its prospect never appeared
   so utterly boundless as now. All that has been achieved, all
   the grand conquests that are recorded, are but an atom in the
   balance weighed when brought against the possibilities of the
   future.--_The Inventive Age._

    (1180)


                            FUTURE REUNION

Richard Watson Gilder is the author of this:

    Call me not dead when I, indeed, have gone
      Into the company of the ever-living
      High and most glorious poets! Let thanksgiving
      Rather be made. Say, “He at last hath won”
    Rest and release, converse supreme and wise,
      Music and song and light of immortal faces;
      To-day, perhaps, wandering in starry places,
    He hath met Keats, and known him by his eyes.
    To-morrow (who can say) Shakespeare may pass--
      And our lost friend just catch one syllable
      Of that three-centuried wit that kept so well--
    Or Milton, or Dante, looking on the grass
      Thinking of Beatrice, and listening still
      To chanted hymns that sound from the  heavenly hill.

    (1181)


                              FUTURE, THE

Ethel Ashton writes of the value of the things not yet in view:

    Beyond the forms and the faces I see ineffable things,
    Above the cry of the children I hear the beating of wings;
    Gracing the graves of the weary are blossoms that never were blown,
    And over the whole of knowledge stands all that shall yet be known.

    The city is not my prison--the world can not stay me there;
    For whole wide earth and its beauty there’s beauty beyond compare.
    The wealth of the wind-blown music, the gold of the sun are mine.
    In light of the light men see not--in sight of the things divine.

    For truer than all that is written is all that has not been told.
    The yet unlived and unliving are truer than all the old.
    The fairest is still the furthest; the life that has yet to be
    Holds ever the past and present--itself the soul of the three.

    --_The Outlook_ (London).

    (1182)


   =Future Uncertain=--See TO-MORROW, UNCERTAINTY OF.


                            FUTURE WELFARE

   A nation may now become educated; a people may now be safe
   against poverty or famine; the world is even now probably past
   the critical point and sure of unintermitted future progress.
   We may be allowed to hope that later generations may continue
   to see an interminable succession of advances, made by coming
   men of science and by learned engineers and mechanics that shall
   continually add to the sum of human happiness in this world, and
   make it continually easier to prepare for a better world and a
   brighter. Who knows but that the telescope, the spectroscope,
   and other as yet uninvented instruments may aid us in this by
   revealing the secrets of other and more perfect lives in other
   and more advanced worlds than ours, despite the head-shaking
   of those who know most of the probabilities? Who can say that
   the life of the race may not be made in a few generations, by
   this ever-accelerating progress of which the century has seen
   but the beginning, a true millennial introduction into the
   unseen universe and the glorious life that every man, Christian
   or skeptic, optimist, or pessimist, would gladly hope for and
   believe possible? (Text.)--R. H. THURSTON, _North
   American Review_.

    (1183)




                                   G


                           GAIN THROUGH LOSS

Ella Wheeler Wilcox writes:

    I will not doubt, tho sorrows fall like rain,
    And troubles swarm like bees about a hive;
    I shall believe the heights for which I strive
    Are only reached by anguish and by pain;
    And tho I groan and tremble with my crosses,
    I yet shall see, through my severest losses,
    The greater gain. (Text)

    (1184)


   =Gain and Loss=--See FAST LIVING.


                          GAIT AND CHARACTER

   The firm foot is the ordinary type in men. A firm walk is a sign
   of self-control as well as of power. When the shoe thickens so
   obstinately that the foot can not bend it, and when the walker
   does not care what noise he makes, the firmness and power are
   developing to a degree that may inconvenience weaker or more
   sensitive folk. The weak foot is the more common. The stand
   suggests a knock-kneed body and a mind not strong enough to make
   the best of life--one might almost say, altogether a knock-kneed
   character that is always stepping crooked and going its way with
   an uncertain gait.--_Cassell’s Family Magazine._

    (1185)


   =Gait of Criminals=--See CRIMINALS, GAIT OF.


                               GAMBLING

   The chaplain in charge of the penitentiaries in Kings County,
   N. Y., states that one-half of all the young men whose
   careers he has investigated show that the race-track and its
   attendant evils were the beginning of their downward course.
   The records of the evil and criminal courts, are replete with
   similar testimony. Bankrupts, women who risk their married
   happiness, clerks, pilfering from the till, embezzlers,
   forgers, defaulters, suicides, show how, to quote a victim who
   stole and then lost at one time $10,000 at the races, “that
   betting is the devil’s own joke,” and there are many full-sized
   victims.--S. PARKES CADMAN.

    (1186)

   See JUVENILE COURT EXPERIENCE.


                      GAMBLING AS RELIGIOUS DUTY

   One of the three great annual Hindu festivals is in memory of
   the occasion when three of the Hindu gods sat down to gamble.
   Krishna, the guileful god, won. This festival is celebrated by
   universal gambling. Indeed, the people believe that unless they
   gamble at this time, they will be born as rats, or take some
   other undesirable form in the next life.

   After the festival is over, thousands of families have to start
   life again from the very bottom without a stick of furniture, as
   all has been lost at gambling.

    (1187)


   =Gambling, Some Results of=--See JUVENILE COURT EXPERIENCE.


                             GAME OF GREED

   Ask a great money-maker what he wants to do with his money--he
   never knows. He doesn’t make it to do anything with it. He gets
   it only that he may get it. “What will you make of what you
   have got?” you ask. “Well, I’ll get more,” he says. Just as, at
   cricket, you get more runs. There’s no use in the runs, but to
   get more of them than other people is the game. And there’s no
   use in the money, but to have more of it than other people is
   the game. So all that great foul city of London there--rattling,
   growling, smoking, stinking--a ghastly heap of fermenting
   brickwork, pouring out poison at every pore--you fancy it is a
   city of work? Not a street of it! It is a great city of play;
   very nasty play, and very hard play, but still play. It is only
   Lord’s cricket-ground without the turf--a huge billiard-table
   without the cloth, and with pockets as deep as the bottomless
   pit; but mainly a billiard-table, after all.--JOHN
   RUSKIN.

    (1188)


                          GATE, THE, OF STARS

H. Aide writes this apt fancy of the stars:

    “Stars lying in God’s hand,
    We know ye were not planned
    Merely to light men on their midnight way.
    Shine on, ye fiery stars!
    It may be through your bars
    We shall pass upward to eternal day.”

    (1189)


   =Generalship=--See OPINION CHANGED.


                              GENEROSITY

A pleasant story about Andrew Carnegie is told by a tourist from
Scotland in the New York _Tribune_:

   At Skibo Castle, Mr. Carnegie had during the summer a beautiful
   rose-garden. There were thousands of red and white and yellow
   roses always blooming there, and the villagers were free to
   saunter in the garden paths to their hearts’ content.

   One day the head gardener waited upon Mr. Carnegie. “Sir,” he
   said, “I wish to lodge a complaint.” “Well?” said the master.
   “Well, sir,” the gardener began, “I wish to inform you that the
   village folk are plucking the roses in your rose garden. They
   are denuding your rose-trees, sir.” “Ah,” said Mr. Carnegie
   gently, “my people are fond of flowers, are they, Donald? Then
   you must plant more.” (Text.)

    (1190)

       *       *       *       *       *

   There is a beautiful incident connected with the fall of the
   stronghold of the Cumberland which General Grant was too modest
   to include in the “Memoirs.” Many years after the event, General
   Buckner, speaking at a Grant birthday gathering, said: “Under
   these circumstances I surrendered to General Grant. I had at a
   previous time befriended him, and it has been justly said that
   he never forgot an act of kindness. I met him on the boat (at
   the surrender), and he followed me when I went to my quarters.
   He left the officers of his own army and followed me, with
   that modest manner peculiar to him, into the shadow, and there
   he tendered me his purse. It seems to me that in the modesty
   of his nature he was afraid the light would witness that act
   of generosity, and sought to hide it from the world.”--Col.
   NICHOLAS SMITH, “Grant, the Man of Mystery.”

    (1191)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A noble spirit despises pay and money. Garibaldi was always
   penniless; so, when he had occasion to give, as was constantly
   the case, he had to borrow or sacrifice personal belongings.
   Once he brought home an Italian exile, who, he explained, was
   poorer than himself. “I have two shirts and he has none,” and
   he proposed dividing. But one shirt happened to be in the wash,
   so, had he stript off the one on his back, as he was wholly
   capable of doing, the division would still have been unequal. “I
   have it!” then exclaimed Garibaldi. “There is the red shirt in
   my trunk that I haven’t worn since Rome. He shall have that!” A
   friend, however, intervened, and the Garibaldian red badge of
   courage was peremptorily rescued. (Text.)

    (1192)

       *       *       *       *       *

   If I were poor, and had no means, and was obliged to throw my
   remaining days on the generosity of the public for food and
   clothes and comfort, I should appeal to the Korean, knowing that
   he would never see me want, would be respectful while generous,
   and would never be so mean as to cast up my good-for-nothingness
   to me.--JAMES S. GALE, “Korea in Transition.”

    (1193)

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Samuel Johnson, William J. Long in “English Literature” writes:

   In all London there was none more kind to the wretched, and none
   more ready to extend an open hand to every struggling man and
   woman who crossed his path. When he passed poor, homeless Arabs
   sleeping in the streets he would slip a coin in their hands, in
   order that they might have a happy awakening; for he himself
   knew well what it meant to be hungry. Such was Johnson--a “mass
   of genuine manhood,” as Carlyle called him, and as such, men
   loved and honored him.

    (1194)

   See ACKNOWLEDGMENT; HUMOR AND GENEROSITY; TACT.


   =Generosity Betrayed=--See DISPLACEMENT.


                         GENEROSITY, CHRISTIAN

If business men generally followed the Golden Rule, after the example
of Mr. Frank Crossley, the great promoter of London missions, as
indicated below, what a different world this would soon become!

   One unfortunate man who had put in one of Mr. Crossley’s
   engines, and found it too small, but was unable to replace
   it, and was threatened with bankruptcy, found in him a
   rare benefactor, who not only replaced the old engine by
   a new and larger one without charge, but actually made up
   to him the losses in his business which had resulted from
   his own blunder. That man said to a friend, “I have found a
   man who treated me just as Jesus Christ would have done!”
   (Text.)--PIERSON, “The Miracles of Missions.”

    (1195)


                       GENEROSITY, THOROUGHGOING

Rev. A. J. Potter, the “Fighting Parson” of Texas, tells this:

   Holding services at a place one time I took up a collection
   for the support of missions. There was a poor old lady present
   who I noticed dropt a $5 gold piece in the hat. I knew she was
   very poor and not able to afford so much, and thought she had
   intended to throw in a quarter, but made a mistake. So next day
   I met her husband and said to him: “Look here, your wife put a
   $5 gold piece in the hat yesterday; I think she must have made a
   mistake.” “No, no,” he replied, “my wife didn’t make no mistake.
   She don’t fling often, but, let me tell you, when she flings she
   flings.”

It is just such “flings” of the generous giver that lend “wings” to the
glorious gospel.

    (1196)


                                GENIUS

    Oh, some there are with beauty bright,
      And they are lust of eyes,
    And some who blind us with the mind
      Our spirit them defies.
    But genius is the great white light
      Nor mind nor beauty buys.

    And some will play a wanton air
      To catch the vagrant soul;
    Some find it sweet with dancing feet
      To foot it toward the goal;
    But he who hears the whirling spheres
      Can ne’er again be whole.

    Oh, he who hears the whirling spheres
      Wher’er his steps have trod,
    Has reached the end of human trend;
      With wings his feet are shod,
    For he has seen, beyond the screen,
      Into the face of God.

    --FREDERICK TRUESDELL, _Appleton’s Magazine_.

    (1197)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The cultivated man is not in every case the best reporter. One
   of the best I ever knew was a man who could not spell four words
   correctly to save his life, and his verb did not always agree
   with the subject in person and number; but he always got the
   fact so exactly, and he saw the picturesque, the interesting,
   and important aspect of it so vividly, that it was worth another
   man’s while, who possest the knowledge of grammar and spelling,
   to go over the report and write it out. Now, that was a man
   who had genius; he had talent the most indubitable, and he got
   handsomely paid in spite of his lack of grammar.--CHARLES A.
   DANA.

    (1198)

   See SMALL BEGINNINGS.


                            GENIUS AND WORK

   Edison, when asked his definition of genius, answered: “Two per
   cent is genius, and ninety-eight per cent is hard work.” When
   asked on another occasion: “Mr. Edison, don’t you believe that
   genius is inspiration?” he replied: “No! Genius is perspiration.”

    (1199)


                       GENIUS CAN NOT BE HIDDEN

   The author of “Uncle Remus” apparently succeeded because he did
   not try. The literary world and the publishers came to him;
   he did not go to them. Here was a young, unknown, untraveled
   printer, of narrow school advantages, tho profitably educated
   in the best classics, and possessing, besides, much curious
   knowledge of negroes, of dogs, of horses, of the way of the red
   stream in the swamp, and of the folk of the woods. He had some
   familiar old stories to tell--so old and so familiar that no one
   had thought them worth while writing down--and he told them as
   quietly and as simply as he talked. But good work, tho hidden
   away in an obscure newspaper, gets itself recognized sooner or
   later, and one day Harris received an invitation to write some
   of his tales for one of the foremost of American magazines. He
   couldn’t understand it at all, but he wrote the stories, among
   them an account of the amusing adventures of Br’er Rabbit, Br’er
   Fox, and the Tar Baby, which clinched his literary fame. His
   tales succeeded far beyond his expectations, and for the same
   reason that made “Æsop’s Fables” an imperishable classic. For
   they were the slow fruitage of the wonder, the humor, and the
   pathos of a race of primitive storytellers. They were instinct
   with those primal passions which appeal to human nature,
   savage and civilized, the world over. (Text.) RAY STANNARD
   BAKER, _The Outlook_.

    (1200)


                           GENIUS DISCOUNTED

   Those who know Goldsmith best had recognized his genius so
   little that when he published “The Traveler” it was difficult to
   persuade them that he had written it himself. He was throughout
   life the butt of inferior wits, and in the arts which secured
   earthly success was completely distanced by inferior men,
   because he had no power of impressing himself as others. He had
   the finest wit, but it was not at command; he had genius and
   eloquence, but an invincible awkwardness and timidity prevented
   the display of either when their display would have won him
   respect. In conversation he was like a man who has a purse of
   gold, but who can not produce the single silver coin which is
   wanted at the moment.--W. J. DAWSON, “The Makers of
   English Prose.”

    (1201)


                          GENIUS, DISCOVERING

Two boys, mistreated by their employer, ran away, taking the road to
Rome. They reached the Eternal City. Peter was taken as cook’s boy in
a cardinal’s house, Michael could find nothing to do, so he almost
despaired and almost starved. But he liked to visit the churches and
gaze at the fine pictures therein.

   Something stirred within him, and he took bits of charcoal and
   sketched pictures on the walls of Peter’s attic room. One day
   the cardinal discovered them. The boys were frightened, and
   Michael declared that he would rub them all out. But he did
   not understand the cardinal, who was amazed at their accuracy
   and power. He took Michael to a drawing-master, and gave Peter
   a better position in his house. Michael worked diligently and
   became an enthusiast in his art.

   His other name was Angelo. This was the humble beginning of
   the man who was almost a universal genius--painter, architect,
   sculptor and poet. (Text.)

    (1202)


   =Genius Neglected=--See FRIENDSHIP.


                      GENIUS NOT ALWAYS FORESEEN

   It is not always easy to pass final judgment, or to say who will
   or will not become famous. The nestling’s first awkward attempts
   to use its wings seem to contain no presage of the warbling
   flight that will come hereafter. Once, at a literary banquet,
   Aldrich reminded Dr. Holmes that he had declared he could see no
   poetic promise in some of Aldrich’s youthful verses that were
   submitted to him.--New Orleans _Times-Democrat_.

    (1203)


                          GENIUS, PERSECUTED

   The last part of Milton’s life is a picture of solitary grandeur
   unequaled in literary history. With the Restoration all his
   labors and sacrifices for humanity were apparently wasted. From
   his retirement he could hear the bells and the shouts that
   welcomed back a vicious monarch, whose first act was to set his
   foot upon his people’s neck. Milton was immediately marked for
   persecution; he remained for months in hiding; he was reduced to
   poverty, and his books were burned by the public hangman. His
   daughters, upon whom he depended in his blindness, rebelled at
   the task of reading to him and recording his thoughts. In the
   midst of all these sorrows we understand, in Samson, the cry of
   the blind champion of Israel:

    Now blind, disheartened, shamed, dishonored, quelled,
    To what can I be useful? Wherein serve
    My nation, and the work from heaven imposed?
    But to sit idle on the household hearth,
    A burdenous drone; to visitants a gaze,
    Or pitied object.

    --WILLIAM J. LONG, “English Literature.”

    (1204)


                          GENIUS, PORTRAYING

   When David, the painter, was commissioned to paint his picture
   of Napoleon crossing the Alps, he asked the First Consul to
   name a day when he would sit. “Sit!” said Bonaparte; “to what
   good? Do you suppose the great men of antiquity sat for their
   portraits?” “But I paint you for your own times, for men who
   have known and seen you; they expect a good likeness.” “A good
   likeness! It is not the exactitude of the features, the little
   wart on the nose, that makes a likeness. What ought to be
   painted is the character of the physiognomy. No one inquires if
   the portraits of great men are alike; it is quite enough if they
   manifest their genius.”--_Magazine of Art._

    (1205)


                          GENIUS, SECOND RATE

   If a man can not be a great genius, is it worth his while to
   be a little one? Some learned men say not. Of the poets who
   flourished and were famous a hundred years ago, how many are
   known now? Of all the bright volumes that brought fame to their
   authors and made the booksellers of old wealthy, how many can
   we find upon the shelves of the bookstores to-day? Only a few.
   And yet, their authors, lauded by friends and flattered by
   reviews, threw all their souls into their songs, and fondly
   dreamed of earthly immortality. The fittest survive, and the
   world has sorted them out with unerring judgment. From the good
   it has taken the best, and we are thankful. But these little
   geniuses--did they live their lives in vain because they are
   forgotten now? Was all their music meaningless, and did the
   world never miss it when their harps were silent? They fulfilled
   their mission; their songs went home to human hearts and
   quickened them with feeling. They sang as sang the birds--brief,
   tender songs that made the world glad for a day; and tho their
   names are now unknown, their graves unmarked, their work has not
   been unrewarded. So let the little geniuses be of good cheer;
   their footsteps may not go echoing down the ages, but they
   may sound very pleasantly in the pathways of to-day. If they
   feel that they must sing, let no man say them nay; there will
   be ears to listen, voices to applaud, and hearts to feel. The
   world needs the low, soft notes of the humble singer, the homely
   harpings of the little poet, as a rest from the deep bass of the
   bards sublime.--Atlanta _Constitution_.

    (1206)


                       GENIUS SHOULD BE FAVORED

   A man of genius is so valuable a product that he ought to
   be secured at all cost; to be kept like a queen-bee in a
   hothouse, fed upon happiness and stimulated in every way to the
   greatest possible activity. To expose him to the same harsh
   treatment which is good for the hod-carrier and the bricklayer
   is to indulge in a reckless waste of the means of a country’s
   greatness. The waste of water-power at Niagara is as nothing
   compared with the waste of brain-power which results from
   compelling a man of exceptional qualifications to earn his own
   living.--JOEL BENTON, _Lippincott’s_.

    (1207)

   See GREAT MEN SHOULD BE PROVIDED FOR.


                        GENIUS THE GIFT OF GOD

   Let Raffael take a crayon in his hand and sweep a curve; let an
   engineer take tracing paper and all other appliances necessary
   to accurate reproduction, and let him copy that curve--his
   line will not be the line of Raffael. Rules and principles are
   profitable and necessary for the guidance of the growing artist
   and for the artist full grown; but rules and principles, I take
   it, just as little as geology and botany, can create the artist.
   Guidance and rule imply something to be guided and ruled. And
   that indefinable something which baffles all analysis, and which
   when wisely guided and ruled emerges in supreme excellence, is
   individual genius, which, to use familiar language, is “the gift
   of God.”--JOHN TYNDALL.

    (1208)


                          GENIUS VERSUS TOOLS

   A young Italian knocked one day at the door of an artist’s
   studio in Rome, and, when it was opened, exclaimed: “Please,
   madam, will you give me the master’s brush?” The painter was
   dead, and the boy, filled with a longing to be an artist, wished
   for the great master’s brush. The lady placed the brush in the
   boy’s hand, saying: “This is his brush; try it, my boy.” With a
   flush of earnestness on his face he tried, but found he could
   paint no better than with his own. The lady then said to him:
   “You can not paint like the great master unless you have his
   spirit.”

   The same great lesson was taught once in a museum of old-time
   armor. When a visitor was shown the sword of Wallace, he said:
   “I do not see how it could win such victories.” “Ah, sir,” said
   the guide, “you don’t see the arm that wielded it.”

We need all the grace and tact we can acquire through studying the best
models and imitating their example; but if we are mere imitators, our
lives will be void of real power. (Text.)

    (1209)


                     GENTILITY, FALSE STANDARDS OF

   The story about Chief Justice Marshall has been told a good
   many times, but will bear telling again. As he was taking a
   morning walk, plainly drest, he encountered a young man who was
   standing at a market stall, evidently in great perplexity. A
   basket of moderate size was before him and he was saying to the
   market-man: “I wonder where all the niggers are this morning. I
   can’t find any one to carry my basket home.” The Chief Justice
   said: “Where do you live?” “No. 200 Avenue A,” was the reply.
   “Well,” he said, “as I am going your way, I will carry your
   basket for you.” They started, the judge carrying the basket.
   The young man noticed that the people they met all bowed very
   politely to his volunteer porter, and wondered who he could
   be. The basket was deposited at the door. Pay was offered, but
   refused. What did it mean? The next day, while walking with a
   friend, this young man saw his volunteer porter in a group of
   lawyers. He asked: “Who is that plain old fellow that they are
   all listening to?” “John Marshall, Chief Justice of the United
   States.” “He carried my market-basket home for me yesterday;
   why do you think he did it?” “To teach you the difference
   between a real gentleman and a snob,” was the caustic reply. If
   some of these modern aristocrats who consider labor degrading
   had gone into the carpenter-shop of Joseph about A.D.
   28 or 29, and seen a young man named Jesus at work there, they
   would have decided at once that he was no gentleman. If they had
   gone into the rooms of Aquilla at Corinth, a few years later,
   and seen Paul sewing on tents (“For he abode with them and
   wrought,” Acts 7:3), they would have despised him because his
   hands ministered to his necessities. They would not have gone
   into the synagog next Sabbath to hear that tent-maker preach.
   No, indeed! Now, can a standard of gentility that excludes Hon.
   John Marshall, Apostle Paul, and our adorable Savior be a true
   one?--OBADIAH OLDSCHOOL, _The Interior_.

    (1210)


   =Gentle Auxiliaries=--See HANDIWORK OF NATURE.


   =Gentleman versus Snob=--See GENTILITY, FALSE STANDARDS OF.


   =Gentlemanliness=--See KINDNESS.


   =Genuineness, Tests of=--See TESTS.


   =Germs, Moral=--See SIN, SUBTLETY OF.


                 GESTURES AND USE OF HANDS IN THE EAST

   As we (missionaries) talk in the street, or in chapels, we
   begin to gesture. Remember that many gestures have well-known
   and disreputable meanings. For instance, I have been holding my
   hand behind my back as I have been speaking to you. It is a most
   offensive thing in some countries to hold your hand behind your
   back. An African missionary was just about concluding difficult
   negotiations with a chief, when he closed his eyes and placed
   his hands over them. Instantly chief and subjects alike arose
   in wrath and nothing further could be done with them. That use
   of the hand had lost the missionary all that he had gained. The
   Westerner, in Kipling’s phrase, is always hustling. He must get
   to a place just as quickly as possible, but in getting there he
   offends propriety. He ought not to walk rapidly; he is not a
   letter-carrier nor a coolie. Why does he not walk as a gentleman
   should?--H. P. BEACH, “Student Volunteer Movement,”
   1906.

    (1211)


                          GETTING AND GIVING

   In South America grows a species of the palm known there as “the
   rain-tree.” It is so called because of its remarkable power of
   abstracting moisture from the atmosphere and dropping it in
   copious and refreshing dew on the earth around it. In this way
   it makes an oasis of luxuriant vegetation where it flourishes.

Is not that the ideal life that gets and gives; that draws the good
only to communicate it to others, so blessing the world with moral
verdure and fruitfulness? (Text.)

    (1212)

   See CONSERVATION.


   =Ghosts, Discredited=--See REALITY VERSUS ILLUSION.


                                GIANTS

A scheme to produce moral and spiritual giants would be of more value
to the world than the following:

   Some time since Count Alfred de Pierrecourt left a legacy of
   $2,000,000 to his native city of Rouen to pay the expense of
   the propagation of giants. The will was contested by his heirs,
   who naturally enough did not see the necessity of having giants
   on the earth in these days, particularly when they were to be
   bred, raised, fed and clothed at their personal expense. The
   courts, however, sustained the will to the extent of endowing
   the Brobdingnagian experimenters with a quarter of the estate,
   so that an institution has been established with an endowment
   of $500,000, under the supervision of the municipality, for
   the culture of giants and the production of monstrosities. The
   trustees are to search the four corners of the globe for men and
   women of large stature, and are to pair them off in couples and
   place them in the homes on a farm near Rouen. (Text.)

    (1213)


                           GIANTS AND DWARFS

It is of more consequence whether we are giants or whether we are
dwarfs in our moral and intellectual stature, than whether our physical
stature is great or small:

   Pliny mentions the giant Gobbara, who was nine feet nine inches,
   and two other giants, Poison and Secundilla, who were half a
   foot taller; Garopius tells of a young giantess who was ten
   feet high, and Lecat of a Scotch giant eleven and one-half feet
   in height. But we may take it for granted that these figures
   are greatly exaggerated, while we have a right to regard as
   authentic giants whose height runs up to eight and one-half
   feet. The Grecian giant, Amanab, at eighteen years old, was
   seven feet eight inches tall; the Chinese giant, Chang, eight
   feet three inches. The Austrian giant, Winckelmeier, who was
   recently exhibited in Paris, measuring eight feet and one-half,
   may be regarded as a specimen of the highest stature attained
   by the human species. At the opposite extreme may be found
   numerous dwarfs not more than twenty inches, and some even as
   little as sixteen and even twelve inches in height; but such
   dwarfs are only monsters with atrophied limbs or twisted back
   bones, or stunted infants, whose age is usually exaggerated by
   their Barnums. One of the most remarkable dwarfs on record was
   the celebrated Borulawsky, who was born in 1789, and died in
   1837, who was never more than twenty-eight inches in height,
   but was perfect in every limb and proportion and was bright and
   intelligent.--M. GUYOT DAUBES, translated from _La
   Nature_.

    (1214)


   =Gift, A, that Increased in Power=--See LITTLE GIFTS.


                             GIFT, A FREE

   There is a legend of a rich man who sent a message to a poor
   neighbor: “I want to give you a farm.” The neighbor set out
   to get it, but carried with him what he thought was a bag of
   gold. Arriving at the rich man’s mansion, he said: “I got your
   message. I want your farm. Here is the gold to buy it.” “Let me
   see your gold,” said the generous donor. It was not even silver.
   The poor man’s eyes filled with tears. “Alas, I am undone!”
   “Why, it is not even copper,” he added; “it is only ashes. I
   have nothing to pay. Will you give it me?” “Why, yes,” said
   the rich man; “that was my offer. Will you accept the farm as
   a gift?” “Yes, indeed,” replied the poor man, “and a thousand
   blessings on your kindness.”

    (1215)


   =Gift and Giver=--See LIKENESS OF GOD.


   =Gift, Using Our Best=--See ADVANTAGE, WORKING TO THE BEST.


   =Gifts=--See LOVE’S ACCEPTABLE OFFERING.


                        GIFTS ADJUSTED TO TASKS

   In the hour of success, let not pride vaunt itself, while vanity
   looks down upon the crowd, exclaiming, “Why did they not work
   as I did? Why did they not have courage to launch out into
   the deep? Why did they not fling their plans as a whaler his
   harpoon, or a hunter his spear?” Well, because God and your
   fathers made you the child of special good fortune, through
   unique gifts of body and of mind. Why did not the poor and
   unsuccessful do as you have done? Why does the turtle-dove not
   soar like the eagle, and lift its stroke against any enemy?
   Why does not a lamb go out for its prey like a wolf or a lion?
   Why did not a modest violet grow tall as a redwood-tree? Why,
   because God had planned something other for a violet and a dove
   and a lamb, and quite another thing for an oak and an eagle and
   a lion. Men’s gifts vary because their tasks are unlike. What
   God asks is not success, but fidelity in the appointed sphere,
   in the ordained equipment.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1216)


   =Gifts from God=--See GOD SENDS GIFTS.


                          GIFTS, SIGNIFICANT

   When the Chinese make gifts they intend each gift to carry
   a meaning, so adding a peculiar charm. The peach and
   oleander-blossoms express the wish for long life rich in
   sustenance and beauty. The lotus-leaf indicates purity and
   modesty; as one writer puts it, “The superior man, like the
   lotus, altho coming through mire, is untainted; altho bathed in
   sparkling water and rising in beauty is without vanity.” The
   aster means superior to circumstances. The orange marigold,
   so fragrant and brilliant in the declining season, signifies
   beautiful in age. These emblematic flowers frequently accompany
   rich gifts to give them speech.

Every gift of the hand will be eloquent with a sentiment of the heart
if the heart’s love is behind it.

    (1217)


   =Girdle=--See BIBLE CUSTOMS TO-DAY.


   =Girls, Betraying=--See TRAPS FOR GIRLS.


   =Girl’s Devotion, A=--See LOYALTY.


   =Girls in Factories=--See GREED.


   =Girl’s Interest in Missions=--See HARVEST FROM EARLY SOWING.


                   GIRLS, LITTLE, AND SLAMMING DOORS

    A trick that every one abhors
    In little girls is slamming doors.

    A wealthy banker’s little daughter,
    Who lived in Palace Green, Bayswater
    (By name Rebecca Offendort),
    Was given to this furious sport.
    She would deliberately go
    And slam the door like Billy-Ho!
    To make her uncle Jacob start.
    (She was not really bad at heart.)

           *       *       *       *       *

    It happened that a marble bust
    Of Abraham was standing just
    Above the door this little lamb
    Had carefully prepared to slam,
    And down it came! It knocked her flat!
    It laid her out! She looked like that!

           *       *       *       *       *

    Her funeral sermon (which was long
    And followed by a sacred song)
    Mentioned her virtues, it is true,
    But dwelt upon her vices, too,
    And showed the dreadful end of one
    Who goes and slams the door for fun!

    --H. BELLOC.

    (1218)


                           GIRLS, TRAFFIC IN

   Twenty-six years ago in New York City, when I first began to
   feel an interest in unfortunate girls, and established the first
   Florence Crittenton home, now known as the Mother Mission, one
   of the things which surprized and imprest me most in coming
   close in touch with the subject, was that almost every girl
   that I met in a house of sin was supporting some man from her
   ill-gotten earnings. Either the man was her husband, who had
   driven her on the street in order that he might live in luxury
   and ease, or else he was her paramour, upon whom with a woman’s
   self-forgetful devotion she delighted to shower everything that
   she could earn. In addition to this form of slavery, I also
   found that the majority had to pay a certain percentage of their
   earnings to some individual or organization who had promised
   them immunity from arrest and to whom they looked for protection.

   But when we began to get closer to the hearts of the girls, to
   know their true history, we discovered that the commencement
   of this form of slavery had been even in a baser form--that
   before the girls had become so-called “willing slaves” they
   were “unwilling slaves.” Many of them had fought for their
   liberty and had submitted only because they had been overcome
   by superior force. Some of them had been drugged; others kept
   under lock and key until such time when either their better
   nature had been drugged into unconsciousness or hardened into a
   devil-may-care recklessness.--ERNEST A. BELL, “War on
   the White Slave Trade.”

    (1219)


                          GIVERS, CLASSES OF

   First, those who give spontaneously and generously, but only to
   themselves--auto-givers they might be called.

   Second, those who give thoughtlessly, without any real or high
   motive--givers of the occasion, as it were.

   Third, those who give as a sop to conscience and self-esteem; in
   a species of atonement for the evil they do--penitential givers.

   Fourth, those who give as a matter of display, to win public
   applause for their generosity--theatrical givers.

   Fifth, those who give because others give, because they are
   expected to give, and are ashamed not to give, and therefore
   give grudgingly--conventional givers.

   Sixth, those who give because they feel they ought to give; who
   give through a sense of duty and not through love--moral givers.

   Seventh, those who give in the spirit of Jesus; who give because
   they love their neighbor as themselves, and above all things
   desire to help him--spiritual givers.

   To which do you belong?

   There are lots of men who will sing with gusto in a missionary
   meeting:

    “Were the whole realm of nature mine,
    That were a present far too small,”

   but when the collection-plate is put under their nose and they
   are asked to put their sentiments into cold, hard cash, they
   drop a five-cent piece upon it with a sigh of regret, which
   suggests these other well-known lines,

    “When we asunder part,
    It gives us inward pain.”

    --E. L. MEADOWS, Pittsburg _Christian Advocate_.

    (1220)


                                GIVING

   Kerman, in Persia, has been sacked at least six times. In 1794
   the city was almost entirely destroyed by Agha Mohammed Khan,
   who later demanded twenty thousand pairs of human eyes before
   he would withdraw his troops. Kerman never recovered from
   this terrible blow, and to-day is a byword for its poverty and
   beggars. There is a quaint saying among its beggars:

    “Khuda guft, ‘Beddeh’;
    Shaitan guft, ‘Neddeh.’”

   This means, “God says, ‘Give’; Satan says, ‘Don’t give.’”

The generous impulse is a divine motion: the selfish, is satanic.
Many are poor because they are first blind and do not possess the
enlightenment of good sense and God’s grace.

    (1221)

       *       *       *       *       *

    Forever the sun is pouring its gold
      On a hundred worlds that beg and borrow;
    His warmth he squandered on summits cold,
      His wealth on the homes of want and sorrow;
        To withhold his largeness of precious light
        Is to bury himself in eternal night.
                    To give
                    Is to live.

    (1222)

   See ALMSGIVING; BENEVOLENCE; GENEROSITY; GETTING AND GIVING;
   HAPPINESS; PERSONAL PREACHING.


                           GIVING, FAITHFUL

   In the station over which Mr. C. T. Studd ministered in China
   every man who was a Christian gave one-tenth of his annual
   income to the Lord. One day a young man who was earning
   seventy-two shillings a year came to Mr. Studd and said,
   “Pastor, I want you to give me a few days’ grace. I have not
   yet got together quite all my tenth.” He handed a good sum to
   him, and the pastor asked, “Haven’t you been helping to support
   your father and mother?” “Yes.” “And kept your little brother at
   school?” “Yes.” “Well, that is more than your tenth,” said Mr.
   Studd. “You need not bring any more.”

   “No,” said the young man, “I have promised God my tenth, and no
   matter what I give beside, I am going to give my full tenth to
   God.” And he did. (Text.)

    (1223)


   =Giving that Grows.=--See MISSIONARY, A LITTLE.


                          GIVING THE MINIMUM

   During the Civil War coins became difficult to obtain, and paper
   money was furnished in their place, and at one time the lowest
   denomination was a “five-cent scrip.” The time came when the
   government minted the three-cent nickel piece. The treasurer of
   a church, a fine man, who had a brother, a missionary in Siam,
   said to me, “Pastor, it is very unfortunate that the government
   should have issued this three-cent piece, because when we had
   nothing smaller than a five-cent scrip, people put that into the
   collection, but now, that we have got something so small as a
   three-cent nickel, our collections will fall off two-fifths!”

    (1224)


                          GIVING THROUGH LOVE

   Queen Tyi was a woman of marked ability, the consort of
   King Amenhotep III, who ruled in Egypt from 1414 to 1379
   B.C. Recently Egyptologists discovered her shrine in
   Thebes. It was cut out of solid rock. Approach to it was by a
   descent of twenty steps, adjoining that of Rameses I. Around and
   within were all that material, wealth and skill of Egyptian art
   could offer. The coffin, itself intact, is a superb example of
   the jeweler’s craft, the woodwork covered with a frame of gold
   inlaid with lapsis lazuli, carmelian and green glass. The royal
   mummy was wrapt from head to foot in sheets of gold, bracelets
   on the arms, a necklace of gold, beads and ornaments encrusted
   with precious stones around the neck, and the head encircled by
   the imperial crown of the queen of ancient Egypt. “Behold how
   he loved her,” can be said of the king whose consort she was.
   Nothing is too precious for love to give. (Text.)

    (1225)


   =Giving, Unostentatious.=--See BENEVOLENCE, MODEST.


   =Giving What We Have=--See TALENTS.


                         GLITTER VERSUS DEPTH

   To have an overwhelming flow of words is one thing; to have a
   large vocabulary is another; and very often Swinburne’s torrent
   of speech reminds us not so much of a natural fountain whose
   springs are deep and abundant, as of an artificial fountain,
   which is always ready to shoot aloft its glittering spray, and
   always reabsorbs itself for some further service; so that while
   the fashion of the jet may differ, the water is pretty much the
   same.--W. J. DAWSON, “The Makers of English Poetry.”

    (1226)


   =Gloom Dispelled=--See SUNSHINE, SCATTERING.


                             GLORY, FADED

   When Charlemagne died, he was buried at Aix la Chapelle,
   “keeping royal state and semblance still.” The purple robe was
   around him, the crown glittered on his pallid brow. The sword of
   state lay near him, and the scepter rested in his hand. Seated
   on a chair of state, with all these insignia of royalty upon him
   and around him, he was left in the chamber of death. A century
   afterward, that silent chamber was opened by the barbarian Otho.
   And now the purple robe was dust and ashes. The crown was a
   faded spangle, the sword of state corroded metal, and all that
   remained of Charles the Great, a ghastly skeleton.

    (1227)


   =Glory in Duty=--See DUTY MORE THAN GLORY.


                            GLORY IN IDEALS

    It is glory enough to have shouted the name
    Of the living God in the teeth of an army of foes;
    To have thrown all prudence and forethought away
    And for once to have followed the call of the soul
    Out into the danger of darkness, of ruin and death.
    To have counseled with right, not success, for once,
            Is glory enough for one day.

    It is glory enough for one day
    To have dreamed the bright dream of the reign of right;
    To have fastened your faith like a flag to that immaterial staff
    And have marched away, forgetting your base of supplies.
    And while the worldly-wise see nothing but shame and ignoble retreat,
    And tho far ahead the heart may faint and the flesh prove weak--
    To have dreamed that bold dream is glory enough,
            Is glory enough for one day.

    --WILLIAM HERBERT CARRUTH, _The American Magazine_.

    (1228)


                            GLORY OF CHRIST

Emery Pottle is the author of this sentiment appropriate to Advent
season:

    Strange, we so toil to fashion for our unseen ends
    The splendors that the tarnish of this world doth mar--
    Such palaces that crumble to a ruined age,
    Such garbled memories upon Fame’s fragile page--
    When all the lasting glory of our life depends
    Upon a little Child, a stable, and a star. (Text.)

    (1229)


                            GLORY OF NATURE

   A teacher in Alaska went out one day with one of her pupils to
   do some sketching. The little girl she took with her was about
   ten years of age and quite skilful with her brush. When the day
   was nearly over the teacher looked at the sky where the sun
   was setting. “Try to make a picture of that sunset,” said the
   teacher to the pupil. The little girl looked at the beautiful
   sight in the heavens and then turned to her teacher and said, “I
   can’t draw glory.” It was a bright answer made by that little
   Alaska girl. It is God who has painted the sunset sky, and
   there is no human skill that can draw the glory which He has
   created.--W. M. VINES.

    (1230)


                                  GOD

    God! Thou art Love! I build my faith on that!
    I know Thee, Thou hast kept my path and made
    Light for me in the darkness--tempering sorrow,
    So that it reached me like a solemn joy;
    It were too strange that I should doubt Thy love.
    BROWNING.

    (1231)


   =God, A Coworker with=--See CHILDREN’S RELIGIOUS IDEAS.


   =God a Protector=--See FAITH, A CHILD’S.


   =“God and We”=--See GRATITUDE.


   =God Cares=--See EXTREMITY, GOD IN.


   “=God Claims Me=”--See CLAIM, GOD’S.


                               GOD FIRST

Here is a lesson on pronouns in Christian grammar according to the
Bishop of Cambridge:

   We have learned to say, “First person, I; second, thou; third,
   he.” But to put it right, we must turn it upside down: “First
   person, He; second, thou; third, I.” “He,” means God, the first
   person in the first place; “thou,” my fellow man; and “I,”
   myself, comes last.

    (1232)


                            GOD, FULNESS OF

   The Scandinavian mythology tells of a mortal who attempted to
   drain a goblet of the gods. The more he drank, however, the more
   there was to drink. His amazement grew, until he found that the
   goblet was invisibly connected with the sea, and that to empty
   it he must drink the ocean dry.

So the soul may drink of God’s life forever without exhausting or
diminishing the supply.

    (1233)


                    GOD, GREATNESS AND SMALLNESS OF

   Collins, the infidel, met a plain countryman going to church.
   He asked him where he was going. “To church, sir.” “What to do
   there?” “To worship God.” “Pray, is your God a great or a little
   God?” “He is both, sir.” “How can He be both?” “He is so great,
   sir, that the heaven of heavens can not contain Him, and so
   little that he can dwell in my heart.”

   Collins declared that this simple answer of the countryman had
   more effect upon his mind than all the volumes the learned
   doctors had written against him. (Text.)

    (1234)


   =God Help Us All=--See FORBEARANCE.


                             GOD, IDEAS OF

   The Indian’s god falls in his estimation as he himself declines.
   When confronted by a people greater than themselves, the Indians
   were easily convinced that their deity also must be greater.
   We find similar ideas among all uncivilized and semi-civilized
   peoples; when the people show great power it is evidence that
   their god is a powerful one. Thus Israel felt assured that
   Jehovah, or Yahveh, was greater than the gods of other people,
   because His people had conquered others under His banner.

    (1235)


                           GOD, IMMANENCE OF

    The works of God, above, below,
      Within us and around,
    Are pages in that Book to show
      How God Himself is found.

           *       *       *       *       *

    Thou who hast given me eyes to see
      And love this sight so fair,
    Give me a heart to find out Thee
      And read Thee everywhere.

    --KEBLE. (Text.)

    (1236)


                          GOD IN A HUMAN LIFE

   Mrs. Burnett has written a sweet and powerful story that turns
   around an old woman in a London slum. She had not lived a good
   life, and, in her wicked old age, lying on a hospital cot, some
   visitor had told her the gospel story. She simply believed it;
   no more than that. One who saw her afterward, at a time of dire
   need, says: “Her poor little misspent life has changed itself
   into a shining thing, tho it shines and glows only in this
   hideous place. She believes that her Deity is in Apple Blossom
   Court--in the dire holes its people live in, on the broken
   stairway, in every nook and cranny of it--a great glory we would
   not see--only waiting to be called and to answer.” --JAMES
   M. STIFLER, “The Fighting Saint.”

    (1237)


                          GOD IN ALL CHANGES

   I went back to the little town where I was born. I saw the
   friends of my childhood, and later I went out to God’s acre.
   There stood the little schoolhouse, and the old academy. The
   great oak-trees swayed above the house where I was born. The
   little brook still rippled over the stones; once more the
   fruit was ripe in the orchard and the nuts brown in the forest
   trees; again the shouts of the old companions were heard on the
   hillside and the laughter of the skaters filled the air; and yet
   all was changed. Gone the old minister, who baptized me! Gone
   the old professors and teachers who taught us. In the little
   graveyard slept the fathers. The stars shone over the mounds,
   the graves were silent, but God was over all. And all is well.
   For our times have been in God’s hands.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1238)


   =God in Creation=--See CREATION, JOY IN.


                            GOD INDWELLING

The late Maltbie D. Babcock is the author of these verses:

    No distant Lord have I,
      Loving afar to be;
    Made flesh for me, He can not rest
      Until He rests in me.

    Brother in joy and pain,
      Bone of my bone was He,
    Now--intimacy closer still,
      He dwells Himself in me.

    I need not journey far
      This dearest friend to see,
    Companionship is always mine,
      He makes His home with me.

    (1239)


   =God in Human Instinct=--See RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION DENIED.


                         GOD IN INDIAN BELIEF

   Of all the different kinds of people among whom I have lived
   the Indians of northern California carry the memory of their
   dead the longest, and, I had almost written, feel their loss
   the most. I have seen old women, bent with age, rocking their
   bodies to and fro with grief in some dry, grass-covered ditch,
   moaning as if their hearts were breaking, and upon inquiry have
   been told that they were mourning for a husband or children dead
   perhaps for years. But from amid the moans of Rachel sorrowing
   for her dead children the whisper of hope beyond the grave has
   always been present. For underneath the driftwood of their dim
   traditions and wild fables handed from father to son from time
   immemorial, around the camp-fires at night, with addition here,
   subtraction there, and darkness all around, I have always found
   among all the tribes that grand conception of a divine being
   who created all and who in the hereafter will reward the good
   and punish the bad. Everywhere my footsteps have wandered--on
   the Klamath and on the Trinity, from the Golden Gate to the
   Oregon line--I have encountered the Man-maker, who lives among
   the stars and loves his red children--A. G. TASSIN,
   _Overland_.

    (1240)


                           GOD IN MAN’S WORK

Dr. Henry Van Dyke enforces the lesson that God is in all the common
tasks of life, after this fashion:

   There was a man who wanted to find Christ, and he imagined he
   must leave his work. He was a carpenter, builder, perhaps, or a
   stone-mason. He imagined he could only be a Christian by going
   to the desert and living a hermit’s life. He never found Christ
   there. He then thought he must never go outside the cloisters
   of the church, or walls of the temple. He did not find Christ
   there. There was something defective about that man’s life. He
   was heedless of his children and his fellow men. He was seeking
   Christ for himself and not for others. The voice of the Savior
   came:

   “You did not need to go to the desert to find me; lift the stone
   and thou shalt find me. Do your regular work as a stone-mason
   and as you do your work you shall find me in your daily labor.
   Cleave the wood and there am I. As you lift the timbers, sing
   out the song of praise.” Christ is with you in your daily task.

    (1241)


                            GOD IN MISSIONS

   The captain of the _Trident_, the ship on which Morrison,
   the missionary, sailed, and who knew something of the
   impenetrable conservatism of the Chinese, said: “And so, Mr.
   Morrison, you really expect that you will make an impression
   upon the idolatry of the great Chinese Empire?” “No, sir,”
   returned Mr. Morrison, severely, “I expect God will.”

    (1242)


   =God, Instinctive Sense of=--See RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION DENIED.


                         GOD IN THE CHILD MIND

   I have in mind a four-year-old girl, favored in many things, but
   especially happy in that she spends her summers on an island
   in a beautiful lake, mountain-rimmed. She has always been
   privileged to walk with her father and mother in the fields
   and woods; to “go a-trudging,” as she called it, has been her
   chief delight. “Where did the trees get their red and yellow
   leaves?” she asked. “Who made them red and yellow?” Her question
   answered, she ran to her mother with her chubby hands filled
   with her new treasures, saying, “See, mama! I have brought you
   some of God’s beautiful leaves!”

   “How came the island here?” she asked. “Who brought the rocks
   and the trees?” She was told how the island was lifted into
   its place; how the soil was formed, the trees planted, and the
   island made ready for the birds, for the trees, for the rabbits,
   for the squirrels, and for her--just as her father had built
   the house for her, in which she lived. As the time for her
   return to her home approached, she sat one evening watching the
   sunset and the early evening stars, and said, “Don’t you hope
   that God will be at home when we get there, just as He has been
   here this summer?” So linked with her love of the beautiful
   in the world was her reverent thought of Him who had made it
   beautiful--SARAH LOUISE ARNOLD, “Proceedings of the
   Religious Education Association,” 1905.

    (1243)


                          GOD IN THE DARKNESS

Robert E. Speer writes the following:

   I was awakened the other morning about four o’clock in my room
   by a little voice just beside my bed in the dark asking for a
   drink. I got the little lad a drink, and he lay quiet for a
   moment, and then asked, “Father, may I sing myself asleep?”
   And I said, “Yes, dear, go ahead.” But soon he got up so much
   enthusiasm that I told him he would better stop, or none of the
   rest of us could sleep. Then he was quiet awhile, but soon I
   heard his little voice again in the perfect stillness of the
   night, “Father, have you got your face turned toward me?” And I
   said, “Yes, little boy,” and the darkness was as the light of
   day to him.

    (1244)


                             GOD IS LIGHT

   As there are no darkened rooms for the child when mother is
   near, so there can be no darkened worlds for the spirit as long
   as God is in them.--F. F. SHANNON.

    (1245)


                            GOD, LIVING FOR

Among the thirty-two “Sacred Songs” by Thomas Moore is the following
exquisite lyric:

    Since first Thy word awaked my heart,
      Like new life dawning o’er me,
    Where’er I turn mine eyes Thou art,
      All light and love before me;
    Naught else I feel, or hear, or see--
      All bonds of earth I sever;
    Thee, O God! and only Thee
      I live for now and ever.

    Like him whose fetters dropt away,
      When light shone o’er his prison,
    My spirit, touched by Mercy’s ray,
      Hath from her chains arisen;
    And shall a soul Thou bidd’st be free,
      Return to bondage? Never!
    Thee, O God! and only Thee
      I live for, now and ever. (Text.)

    (1246)


   =God Maternal=--See MATERNAL, GOD’S LOVE.


                            GOD, NOT NATURE

   A great teacher of England, passing through a hospital, stopt
   beside a little wan-faced crippled boy, who was dying. The
   handsomest man in England stooped to that little stranger,
   saying, “My boy, God loves you.” An hour later, the little
   cripple, in a wonder of happiness, called one nurse after
   another to his side, exclaiming, “He said, ‘God loves me!’” and
   with smiles wreathing his face, the dying boy repeated the magic
   word. But to go toward the god of nature is to lie down in a bed
   of nettles. Nature exhibits God as a purple earthquake. Going
   toward nature is going toward a sheaf of red-hot swords. Man
   subdues nature’s fire and wind and water, and makes them serve.
   Back of these rude physical forces that are to help man’s body
   stands the infinite Father. Man’s body, on a snowy day, needs a
   blazing fire on the hearth, and man’s heart needs God’s love,
   that redeems, guides, and forever saves.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1247)


   =God Our Guide=--See GUIDANCE, GOD’S.


                           GOD OUR STRENGTH

   At one time during the war of the Revolution, Washington sent
   Lee and Lafayette to meet the British at Englishtown. After a
   brief skirmish, Lee, without any apparent reason, except that it
   was for jealousy, ordered a retreat. Soon the American troops
   were all in disorder and were fleeing before the oncoming foe.
   Everything was in confusion and chaos.

   Lafayette saw the condition, but he did not dare disobey. He
   hastily sent a message to the commander-in-chief, informing
   him of the state of things and beseeching him to come as soon
   as possible. In an incredibly short time, Washington appeared
   with fresh troops. He met the soldiers retreating. Giving Lee a
   cutting rebuke, he began to retrieve the error of the morning.
   When the soldiers saw Washington, riding back and forth on his
   white horse, almost under the banner of the enemy, they faced
   about as they cried, “Long live Washington.” His presence
   brought order and determined the victory.

   In our moral warfare, when the enemy is pressing toward us,
   when the forces of righteousness within and without seem on the
   retreat, if we will send a message, lift up a prayer to the
   Captain of the Lord’s host, He will answer while we are yet
   speaking, and will get the victory with His own right arm, for
   He is a God of battles. (Text.)

    (1248)


   =God Possesses a Body=--See CHILDREN’S RELIGIOUS IDEAS.


   =God, Presence of=--See PRESENCE OF GOD.


   =God Proved=--See CORN VERSUS GOLD.


                           GOD, RECOGNIZING

   Dwight L. Moody in his sermons used to tell of a mother who had
   an only child that was an idiot. When it was fourteen years
   of age a neighbor came in and found the mother weeping in the
   bitterness of her soul. Asking what was the matter, the mother
   answered: “For fourteen years I have cared for that child day
   and night; I have given up society and spent my time with her,
   and to-day she does not know me from you. If she would only
   recognize me once it would pay me for all I have ever done for
   her.”

Mr. Moody would add: “How many are there over whom the Son of God has
watched and cared for and blest, and who have never once recognized
Him, have never once looked up into His face and said, “Thank you, Lord
Jesus.”

    (1249)


                        GOD REVEALED IN NATURE

   The mosses on the rock, as well as the trees that bend stately
   above them, the birds that fly and sing in heaven, as well as
   the clouds that gather and dissolve there, the mimosa that
   closes its sensitive petals if a footfall approaches, and the
   stars that reign silent on empyreal thrones--each must in turn
   give witness to the Most High; till the frame of creation shall
   be all eclaircised, not so much a pillar engraven around with
   the trophies of omnipotence, as a solid but transparent sphere
   of crystal, lighted from within by the calm thought of God!
   (Text.)--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (1250)

   See ATOM, THE, A WITNESS TO GOD.


   =God Self-revealed=--See DEMONSTRATION.


                            GOD SENDS GIFTS

   A lady physician in one of the mission fields restored to health
   a beloved child of a native. In gratitude the parents knelt at
   her feet and not only thanked but worshiped her as a god. She
   remonstrated, saying that she was a mortal like themselves and
   worship belonged only to God. They replied that no one but a
   god could have saved their loved one from death. “Whom would
   you thank and praise,” the missionary replied, “for a princely
   gift sent by the hand of a coolie--the servant or his generous
   master, the giver? I am but God’s coolie by whose hand He has
   been pleased to send you this great gift of healing.” (Text.)

    (1251)


                        GOD, SLEEPLESS CARE OF

This song of nightfall is by the Rev. Archibald Haddon:

    The tangled threads, the untilled field,
      The words unsaid, the tasks half done,
    Battles unfought, and wounds unhealed,
      Must wait until another sun.

    Stars move, the tides and rivers roll,
      Grass grows, rain falls on vale and hill.
    And deep in my unconscious soul
      The sleepless life of God works still.

    I rest on thy unwearied mind;
      Thy planning and thy love go on,
    Nor dost thou leave me far behind;
      I’m carried to another dawn.

    The new day breaks. From earth’s old mold
      Fresh flowers grow along my way.
    New light is flashed on problems old;
      On ancient life new forces play.

    O wondrous, wakeful Warden! When
      The last great nightfall comes to me,
    From that deep slumber rouse me then,
      That I Thy tireless child may be. (Text.)

    (1252)


                       GOD SURROUNDING THE SOUL

   Constant communion will surround us with an atmosphere through
   which none of the many influences which threaten our Christian
   life and our Christian work can penetrate. As the diver in his
   bell sits dry at the bottom of the sea, and draws a pure air
   from the free heavens far above him, and is parted from that
   murderous waste of green death that clings so closely round the
   translucent crystal walls which keep him safe, so we, enclosed
   in God, shall repel from ourselves all that would overflow to
   destroy us and our work, and may by His grace lay deeper than
   the waters some courses in the great building that shall one
   day rise, stately and many-mansioned, from out of the conquered
   waves. (Text.)--ALEXANDER MCLAREN.

    (1253)


                          GOD, THE OVERSEEING

   The steamer _Samaritan_, on the St. Lawrence, was suddenly
   enveloped in a heavy fog, completely hiding the shore and
   every object from view. Yet the ship continued in full speed.
   The passengers became frightened and censured Captain Dutton
   and complained to the first mate. He replied, smiling, “Don’t
   be frightened; the fog only extends a certain height, and the
   captain is up above the fog running the vessel.”

We who fear the dangers of time and the world, often forget that God,
the great Captain, is above the fog and knows just where and whither He
is steering the life ship.

    (1254)


                           GOD, THE SENSE OF

   No wonder you yawn and know not what to do next if you have no
   God, for ennui is the mark of godlessness.

   Nothing is worth while but God.

   The very naming of God gives zest to life.

   I love to feel God love the world through me, until I am fairly
   washed away by the current.

   Of what moment is it whether I live or die so long as that goes
   on?--ERNEST CROSBY, “Swords and Plowshares.”

    (1255)


   =God the Source of Goodness=--See GOODNESS FROM GOD.


                          GOD, THE UNSLEEPING

   The Sleeping Buddha is one of the famous temples of China. A
   long avenue of large trees, with a stone pavement passageway,
   leads up to its entrance. Before it is an imposing gateway of
   colored tiles. But the pride of its interior is the wonderful
   figure of Buddha. A monster it is! Gross, indeed, must have been
   the mind which conceived it. There, lying on his side, with
   calm face, closed eyes, and head resting upon his hand, is a
   gilded wooden figure thirty feet long. It is well proportioned.
   His left arm is resting upon his body, and his bare feet are
   placed one upon the other. This Buddha is sleeping upon a
   Chinese _K’ang_. Standing about him are twelve crowned
   and beautifully drest images, and in front are the symbols of
   sacrifices for burning incense. But Buddha is asleep!

Contrast this with the conception of the God who never “slumbers nor
sleeps.” (Text.)

    (1256)


   =God the Weaver=--See WEB OF LIFE.


   =God, Walking with=--See WALKING WITH GOD.


                          GODLIKENESS OF MAN

Leroy T. Weeks somewhat enlarges upon the saying of Kepler in the
following verses:

    We think Thy thoughts, O mighty God!
      Thy thoughts, that thrill through space afar,
      That hold in place each twinkling star,
    And permeate the teeming sod.

    We think Thy thoughts, and live thy life;
      Our souls are fathered by Thine own,
      And high as is Thy holy throne,
    So high we mount from sin and strife.

    We live Thy life, and love Thy love;
      The tendrils of our souls entwine,
    Entwines and draws us all above,
      Our fellow men, as love divine.

    We think and live and love and grow
      Like Thee, in ever-bright’ning ways;
      We are God-kind, and all our days
    Are in His hands who made us so. (Text.)

    (1257)


   =God’s Bridge=--See SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS.


                              GOD’S CARE

Mary E. Allbright, in the _Christian Advocate_, writes in rime the
same lesson Jesus taught His disciples when He told them that the very
hairs of their heads were numbered, and that Paul exprest when he said
“for He (God) careth for you”:

    O! strange and wild is the world of men
      Which the eyes of the Lord must see--
    With continents, islands, tribes, and tongues,
      With multitudes, bond and free!
    All kings of the earth bow down to him,
      And yet--He can think of me.

    For none can measure the mind of God
      Or the bounds of eternity.
    He knows each life that has come from Him,
      To the tiniest bird and bee;
    And the love of His heart is so deep and wide
      That takes in even me.

    (1257_a_)

   What cares the babe for the blackness and the wild storm if only
   the mother holds it to her bosom and croons the hymn of peace.
   And in the hour when the world reels beneath his feet, frail man
   becomes almost omnipotent in the thought that beneath this world
   are the everlasting arms. (Text.)--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1258)


   =God’s House for All=--See AMERICANISM, TRUE.


   =God’s Image=--See RESTORING GOD’S IMAGE.


                         GOD’S INSCRUTABILITY

Incompetent to the making of a single cherry-seed, as Luther remarks,
how can we expect to fathom the works and wisdom of an infinite God?

   “I am not so much of a farmer as some people claim,” said Hon.
   W. J. Bryan in his lecture on “The Prince of Peace,” “but I have
   observed the watermelon-seed. It has the power of drawing from
   the ground and through itself 200,000 times its weight, and when
   you can tell me how it takes this material and out of it colors
   an outside surface beyond the imitation of art, and then forms
   inside of it a white rind and within again a red heart, thickly
   inlaid with black seeds, each one of which in turn is capable of
   drawing through itself 200,000 times its weight--when you can
   explain to me the mystery of a watermelon, you can ask me to
   explain the mystery of God.” (Text.)

    (1259)


                            GOD’S PRESENCE

   It is said that on the doors of Linnæus’ home at Hammarby,
   near Upsala, these words were written, “_Innocue vivito;
   numen adest_”--“Live blameless; Deity is here.” “This,” said
   Linnæus, “is the wisdom of my life.” “Thou God seest me.”

    (1260)


                              GOD’S WAYS

    God’s ways seem dark, but, soon or late,
      They touch the shining hills of day;
      The sinner can not brook delay--
    The good can well afford to wait.

    --WHITTIER.

    (1261)


                            GOLD, TAINT OF

   The ancient fable of King Midas and his gift of turning
   everything he laid his hands upon into gold has been exactly
   reversed in these modern days. This good king was delighted
   with the gift the gods gave him until one day he turned his
   daughter into a golden image by a careless use of his power, and
   the counterfeit presentment was so utterly worthless compared
   with his child of flesh and blood that henceforth his charm
   was a horrible curse. Now it is our brightest and best which
   come under the spell of gold itself, and how it does harden
   and fossilize them! Our artists paint, our literary men write,
   our business men take hazardous and doubtful ventures, our
   young men and maidens marry, all for gold. How bright was the
   promise of Bret Harte until he began to command high prices for
   his stories? Howells, James and Stockton all delighted us, but
   presently we found ourselves wading through such stories as
   “April Hopes” and the “Hundredth Man.” As soon as one begins to
   preach good sermons in the pulpit he immediately attracts the
   attention of some rich congregation and becomes a high-priced
   man. Everywhere the test of excellence is price, and all the
   choicest spirits are sought out and put into the livery of our
   sovereign gold.--Providence _Journal_.

    (1262)


                             GOLD USELESS

   It is true the California gold will last forever unchanged, if
   its owner chooses; but, while it so lasts, it is of no use; no,
   not as much as its value in pig iron, which makes the best of
   ballast; whereas gold, while it is gold, is good for little or
   nothing. You can neither eat it, nor drink it, nor smoke it. You
   can neither wear it, nor burn it as fuel, nor build a house with
   it; it is really useless till you exchange it for consumable,
   perishable goods; and the more plentiful it is the less its
   exchangeable value--EDWARD EVERETT.

    (1263)


                            GOLDEN AGE, THE

That the golden age is not in the past nor in the future, but now, is
the refrain of these verses:

    There are no days for me in long ago,
      No days in which to work and love and pray,
    No richly freighted hours where sweet winds blow.
      There is no treasure for me but to-day.

    There is no field where I may sow my seed
      Beyond the reach of evening’s setting sun.
    If to this soil to-day I pay no heed,
      The future’s fertile fields may ne’er be sown.

    The age of iron, of bronze, they are not now,
      The bright-gemmed present is my golden age,
    In which I think and live and love and do
      What deeds are worth life’s brave and noble wage.

    And finding in to-day my age of gold
      To-morrow glows with promise and delight,
    As if the happy isles oft dreamed of old
      Were dawning now upon my blissful sight. (Text.)

    (1264)


   =Golden Rule, The=--See CIRCUMSTANCES, TAKING ADVANTAGE OF;
      CONSIDERATENESS.


   =Good and Evil=--See NATURE, DUAL, IN MAN.


                         GOOD DISPLACING EVIL

   The headquarters of the George Yard Missions, London, are
   pitched on an extinct volcano; the main block being built on the
   site of an ancient distillery, and the shelter on the ground
   formerly occupied by the infamous “Black Horse”--that rendezvous
   of highwaymen, robbers, and murderers.--PIERSON, “The
   Miracles of Missions.”

    (1265)


                            GOOD, FAITH IN

In the following verse Eugene Lee-Hamilton shows the result of losing
faith in the good:

    There is a tale of Faustus--that one day,
      Lucretia, the Venetian, then his love,
      Had, while he slept, the rashness to remove
    His magic ring, when fair as god he lay;
    And that a sudden horrible decay
      O’erspread his face; a hundred wrinkles wove
      Their network on his cheek; while she above
    His slumber crouched, and watched him shrivel away.

    There is upon Life’s hand a magic ring--
      The ring of Faith-in-Good, Life’s gold of gold;
    Remove it not, lest all Life’s charm take wing;
      Remove it not, lest straightway you behold
    Life’s cheek fall in, and every earthly thing
      Grow all at once unutterably old.

    (1266)


                             GOOD FOR EVIL

   Mr. Lincoln took from his pocket a paper he had prepared in the
   case, which comprized eleven reasons why he should be appointed
   commissioner of the General Land Office. Among other things,
   Mr. Lincoln presented the fact that he had been a member of
   Congress from Illinois two years; that his location was in the
   West, where the Government lands were; that he was a native of
   the West, and had been reared under Western influences. He gave
   reasons why the appointment should be given to Illinois, and
   particularly to the southern part of the State. Major Wilcox
   says that he was forcibly struck by the clear, convincing, and
   methodical statement of Mr. Lincoln as contained in these eleven
   reasons why he should have the appointment. But it was given
   to his competitor, Mr. Justin Butterfield. After Mr. Lincoln
   became President, a member of Congress asked for an appointment
   in the army in behalf of a son of the same Justin Butterfield.
   When the application was presented, the President paused, and,
   after a moment’s silence, said: “Mr. Justin Butterfield once
   obtained an appointment I very much wanted, and to which my
   friends thought I was fairly entitled; and I hardly ever felt so
   bad at any failure in my life. But I am glad of an opportunity
   of doing a service to his son.” And he made an order for the
   commission. The son was General Dan Butterfield, afterward the
   dashing and efficient chief of staff of the Army of the Potomac.
   (Text.)--BROWNE, “Everyday Life of Lincoln.”

    (1267)


                         GOOD, IMMORTALITY OF

   Over one of the town-gates of ancient Warwick, in England,
   stands a home for old men, known as the Hospital of St. John.
   It was founded three centuries ago by the ambitious Earl of
   Leicester and Lord of Kenilworth Castle. That castle is now in
   ruins, and for his perfidy the name of the earl is a byword and
   a reproach; but this endowment, after long centuries, still
   remains living and beneficent, shining through the dark to show
   for future ages that

    “So shines a good deed in a naughty world.”

    (1268)


                            GOOD IN ALL MEN

Our fellow man is as valuable as we. He may be down, but he has it in
him to stand. A writer says of the windfalls of apples:

   We remember that in the windfalls a sweetness remains. That
   fruit, fallen untimely, or cast earthward by the storm, yet has
   not lost its flavor; often it is still sweet and pleasant to
   the taste. And, therefore, mindful of this, let us not think
   that the human windfalls have lost all their sweetness. Let us
   remember some good is left in all, and seek to gather them up.
   (Text.)

    (1269)


   =Good, Making=--See REFORMATION.


                         GOOD, NOURISHING THE

Mr. Kaye Robinson, the brilliant English naturalist, describes a
competition witnessed by him in the fields:

   Owing to a peculiarity of weather the poppies had managed to
   get a start of an inch or so in the matter of height over the
   wheat and barley, and the obnoxious flowers were just beginning
   to burst into bloom that would have converted the stunted grain
   into lakes of scarlet, when down came the rain; in a single day
   and night the wheat shot up above the poppies, and for the rest
   of the season the poisonous things were overwhelmed in a wavy
   sea of prosperous green and yellow gold.

The best way to improve the world is not to fight against the evil
directly, but to so nourish and cultivate the good that evil will be
crowded out. (Text.)

    (1270)


   =Good Old Times=--See SCIENCE SHATTERING SUPERSTITION.


                           GOOD OUT OF EVIL

Again and again is it demonstrated how God makes the wrath of man to
praise him.

   When he was seeking to do evil only, in the pursuit of his cruel
   and tyrannical policy, Sultan Abdul Hamid was all the time
   unconsciously promoting some of the great designs of divine
   Providence. He did good in ways altogether unintended, never for
   a moment foreseeing how his own policy in the end would recoil
   upon himself. For he banished hundreds of the most enlightened
   and patriotic of his subjects to various provinces, little
   thinking how their influence would work against himself. The
   head of the revolutionary party, Ahmed Riza, for twenty years
   quietly and steadily during his exile worked in the cause of
   liberty. And this heroic man toiled on in face of the depressing
   obstacles furnished by what seemed to be an utterly unresponsive
   country. When he was living in dire poverty in France he refused
   to accept £2,000 a month from the Sultan, and at one crisis he
   just as firmly and indignantly rejected an offered bribe of a
   million pounds simply to shut his mouth. (Text.)

    (1271)


                       GOOD OUTWEIGHING THE BAD

   It was a quiet little town, nestling snugly at the foot of a big
   hill. Many of the streets were lined with shade-trees. On one
   of the principal thoroughfares there stood a magnificent tree.
   Its shade and beauty evoked the admiration of the passers-by.
   It stood squarely on the middle of the sidewalk, and might be
   regarded as an obstruction. There were some who would have
   liked to see that tree taken down, because it was not where
   it should be, but the great majority decided to let it remain
   because of its beauty, its shade and its symmetry. So is it with
   individuals. Sometimes a man is very irregular at his business
   or he is careless in some of his habits, and the question comes
   up, what shall be done with that man. His good qualities are
   considered and they discover that they far outweigh his bad
   qualities, and thus he is allowed to remain.

    (1272)


   =Good Results from Bad Environment=--See MISSIONARY ADAPTATION.


                     GOOD SAMARITAN IN PARAPHRASE

The following is a Hindu version of the parable of the Good Samaritan
given by a schoolgirl in the mission at Sukkur:

   There was once a rich merchant going home through a forest. He
   was suddenly attacked by robbers, who beat him and robbed him
   of all his money, leaving him half dead. A Brahman passed by,
   and seeing the man, said to himself, “He is only a sweeper,” and
   went away. A Mohammedan also came that way, but he said, “This
   man is no relation or friend of mine; why should I have any
   concern for him?” and so he went away. At last a Christian came,
   riding on horseback, and taking pity on the poor man, bound up
   his wounds with strips of cloth torn from his own turban, and
   placing him on his horse, took him to a hospital, and, giving
   the doctor sahib two rupees, said, “Make this man well, and when
   I return, you will get from me twenty rupees more!”

    (1273)


                           GOOD, SEEING THE

It is the best art of the teacher to see the good in mixed human nature
and give it encouragement:

   Several years ago one of the New York producing managers
   received the manuscript of a play from an utterly unknown
   author. It was crudely written and most of the situations were
   utterly impossible. Produced in the form in which it came from
   its creator’s pen it could have been only a dismal failure. The
   manager was not for a moment tempted to produce the play he had
   received, but he saw possibilities in the author’s plot. He sent
   for him and pointed out a few of the more glaring defects and
   suggested that the manuscript be turned over to a professional
   dramatist.

   This was done, and the rewritten play, only faintly suggesting
   the original manuscript, was produced and immediately achieved
   success. The amateur playwright applied himself to a close study
   of practical playwriting, and is to-day the author of numerous
   successful dramas. He realizes now just how hopeless that first
   play must have appeared in the original form, and appreciates
   the patience and good judgment of the manager who discerned the
   dramatic nugget buried in a desert of dreary dialog.

    (1274)


                          GOOD SHALL PREVAIL

   Near Geneva two great rivers meet but do not mingle. Here the
   Rhone pours out its waters of heavenly blue, and there the Arve,
   partly from the glaciers from which it largely comes, and partly
   from the clay soil that it upheaves, meet and run side by side
   for miles, with no barriers save their own innate repulsions,
   each encroaching now and then into the province of the other,
   but beaten back again instantly into its own domain.

Like mighty rival forces of good and evil do these rivers seem, and
for long the issue is doubtful; but far down the stream the muddy Arve
is mastered, and the Rhone has colored the whole surface of the stream
with its own tinge of blue. So in the end the good shall prevail.
(Text.)

    (1275)


   =Good Shepherd=--See FOLD, THE, OF CHRIST.


                            GOOD VICTORIOUS

   In all the upward march of matter and force, there has never
   been one single crisis and conflict where the higher has not
   been victorious over the lower. Witness the first struggle,
   between the mineral and the vegetable. The marble is hard,
   and the moss seeks to spread its robe of olive and velvet
   thereupon; slowly the marble crumbles, and dies; the moss lives
   and grows--it could not be otherwise; the moss is the higher
   and therefore victorious. The husbandman plants his seed of
   corn. The seed dies, the little plant lives, and becomes a
   great stalk, with corn in the milk, and then the full corn in
   the ear--it could not be otherwise; the golden stalk is the
   higher, and must be victorious. In the forest there grow a
   hundred kinds of jack-grapes, small, black and aciduous, and
   a thousand orange-trees are there, bitter, and with acid that
   sets the teeth on edge. But on the edge of the forest, steeped
   in sunshine and blest with room, there grows one grape that
   is purple and one orange that is sweet. And at last all the
   thousand acid vines and the ten thousand bitter orange-trees
   perish, while the one purple vine survives, takes feet to itself
   and journeys to all vineyards, while the orange of the golden
   heart gets wings for itself and crosses vale and mountain--it
   could not be otherwise, they are the higher. And never once has
   the law been reversed.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1276)


                               GOOD WILL

By a divine birth long ago, peace and good will came between those that
had been at enmity. An earthly suggestion of this is that related by
Mrs. Pickett, widow of Confederate General George E. Pickett, on the
occasion of the birth of a son:

   General Grant had been a dear friend of my Soldier’s ever since
   the Mexican War. At the time our first baby was born, the two
   armies were encamped facing each other. Bonfires were lighted
   in celebration all along Pickett’s line. Grant saw them, and
   sent scouts to learn the cause. When they reported, he said to
   General Ingalls:

   “Haven’t we some kindling on this side of the line? Why don’t we
   strike a light for the young Pickett?”

   In a little while bonfires were flaming from the Federal line. A
   few days later there was taken through the lines a baby’s silver
   service, engraved: “To George E. Pickett, Jr., from his father’s
   friends, U. S. Grant, Rufus Ingalls, George Buckley.” (Text.)

    (1277)

   See CHRISTMAS.


                           GOODNESS FROM GOD

   When we see the million rain-drops of the shower we say, with
   reason, there must be one great sea from which all these drops
   come. And when we see, as it were, countless drops and countless
   rays of goodness scattered about in the world, a little good
   in this man, and a little good in that, shall we not say,
   there must be one great sea, one central sun of goodness, from
   whence all human goodness comes? And where can that center
   of goodness be, but in the very character of God Himself?
   (Text.)--CHARLES KINGSLEY.

    (1278)


                          GOODNESS IN THE BAD

   That human nature is a kaleidoscope of good and bad, rather than
   one stripe of plain color, receives a striking illustration
   in the case of one Vinzenzo Juliano, who was confined in the
   Newark jail on a charge of murder. According to a report, it was
   noticed that the prisoner grew weaker and more meager day by
   day. His wife visited him regularly, and she invariably carried
   away a small parcel. The suspicions of the warden were aroused
   and he made an inspection of the bundle, to find it contained
   the ration of food with which the prisoner had been supplied.
   Inquiries followed, and it appeared the prisoner was starving
   himself to provide food for his wife and children, who had
   no other means of support. On learning this fact, the warden
   doubled the ration, and took further steps to keep the family
   of the prisoner from utter destitution.--New York _Commercial
   Advertiser_.

    (1279)


   =Goodness, Peril of=--See CHRIST, GOODNESS OF.


                          GOSPEL, A MEDICATED

   An ingenious Frenchman, it is said, has been experimenting in
   the manufacture of medicated honey. He keeps his bees under
   glass, giving them only flowers that contain the desired
   properties. In this way, he claims to obtain different kinds of
   honey--for influenza, for indigestion, for asthma, and for many
   other forms of ills that flesh is heir to.

Better than medicated honey is a medicated gospel that meets the
multiform and variegated moral and social ills that afflict our world.
(Text.)

    (1280)


   =Gospel, Influence of the=--See CHRISTIANITY, PRACTICAL PROOF OF.


   =Gospel in the Philippines=--See LATIN AMERICA AND THE GOSPEL.


                           GOSPEL MAGNIFIED

   The scientist tells us that rich meteoric dust first fell on our
   earth as soil for the earliest vegetable life. And ascending
   from the scenes they loved, the apostles, with their memories,
   the musicians with their solemn Te Deums, the artists with
   their transfigurations and crucifixions, the cathedral-builders
   with their sublime conceptions of worship, the philosophers,
   and the poets, rained the richest associations down upon that
   gospel, whose ideas had lent them their greatness.--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (1281)


   =Gospel, No Substitutes for=--See PREACHING GOSPEL.


                          GOSPEL, SENDING THE

M. B. Banks writes a missionary lesson after the style of “Mother
Goose”:

          Little Jack Horner
          Sat in a corner
      Eating a very queer pie;
          He saw in a trice
          It held everything nice
    From the lands where the mission fields lie.

          From Ceylon came the spice,
          And from China the rice,
      And bananas from African highlands;
          There were nutmegs and cloves
          Sent from Borneo’s groves,
    And yams from the South Sea Islands.

          There were nuts from Brazil
          All the corners to fill,
      And sugar and sago from Siam;
          And from Turkey a fig
          That was really so big,
    Jack’s mouth thought, “It’s larger than I am.”

          There were pomegranates fair
          Grown in Persia’s soft air,
      And tortillas from Mexico found there;
          And there did appear
          Grapes and grains from Korea,
    And all of the things that abound there.

          A Syrian date
          Did not turn up too late;
      He need not for tea to Japan go;
          Tamerinds were not few,
          There were oranges too,
    And from India many a mango.

          “Now,” thought little Jack,
          “What shall I send back
      To these lands for their presents to me?
          The Bible, indeed,
          Is what they all need
    So that shall go over the sea.”

    (1282)


   =Gospel, Spread the=--See STORY, POWER OF THE OLD.


                            GOSPEL SUCCESS

   Mr. Nagota, Japanese pastor of the Episcopal Church in Tsu,
   gives the following account of his conversion to Christianity:
   A colporteur was trying to persuade a soldier to buy a gospel.
   He was rebuffed by gross insults and most uncalled for anger.
   The colporteur bore the indignity with so much meekness that Mr.
   Nagota, who chanced to be passing by, was amazed, and bought
   the gospel for the sake of the maligned man. He took the little
   volume home and read it carefully, and through reading, became a
   Christian.

    (1283)


                   GOSPEL, TRANSFORMING POWER OF THE

A striking illustration of this is found in the history of the noted
African chief, Africaner, notorious in his day until reached by the
gospel:

   In 1819, finding it necessary to go to Cape Town, Moffat
   determined to take Africaner with him, attired as his attendant.
   The chief was an outlaw, with a price of one thousand
   rix-dollars upon his head, but finally agreed tc go. As they
   passed through the Dutch farms on his way, Moffat found that he
   was supposed to have been long before murdered by Africaner.
   One man told him that he had seen Moffat’s bones. Moffat told
   a farmer that Africaner (the chief being still in disguise) he
   knew to be a truly good man. This the man could not credit, and
   said that his one wish was to see that terror before he himself
   should die; whereupon Moffat turned and said quietly, pointing
   to his mild attendant, “This, then, is Africaner.” The farmer,
   looking at the Christian man before him, exclaimed: “O God, what
   a miracle of Thy power! What can not Thy grace accomplish!”

That which Africaner exhibited of the power of the gospel in character,
is shown by a host of redeemed ones, such as Jerry McAuley, who through
their careers, have magnified the power that saved them.--“Gloria
Christi.”

    (1284)


   =Gospel Truth Written in Faces=--See FACE, THE, REVEALING THE
      GOSPEL.


   =Gossip=--See OTHER SIDE, THE.


                                 GRACE

Grace in human agents is manifested in doing the good we are under no
just obligation to do:

   The Plymouth Congregational Church, of Cleveland, Ohio, years
   ago built themselves a beautiful church edifice. The contractor
   drew the money due for work done, and instead of paying his
   workmen, left for parts unknown, carrying the funds with him.
   These workmen had not a shadow of a claim upon the trustees,
   and expected nothing from them. But thirteen hundred dollars
   were due them from the absconded contractor, and they needed the
   money. The pastor, Rev. Mr. Collins, said to his people: “True,
   we do not owe these men a farthing; still, let us make an effort
   to give them what their dishonest employer owes them, and never
   let it be said that unrequited toil went into the rearing of
   this temple of the Most High.” And all the people said, Amen.
   The laborers went that night to their homes rejoicing, carrying
   their lost and found pieces of silver with them.

    (1285)

   See LAW AND GRACE.


                           GRACE, NOT GROWTH

   Touch a piece of black coal, and flaky soot falls off; fuse that
   coal with fire, and nature makes it impossible for the carbon to
   throw off blackness, but only light and heat. One of the biggest
   facts in human experience is this, that a new heart is possible
   for bad men. Salvation is a gift. Once a bitter orange, growth
   and culture only increases the size and flavor of the bitter
   orange. The husbandman grafts, as a free gift, the new sweet
   fruit into the old root. Every tree in the modern orchard
   represents a twig cut from a tested apple, and grafted into the
   wild root. Education, the passing years, simply increase the
   size of the selfish man, the avaricious man, the pleasure-loving
   man, but the new impulse is an exotic from heaven, grafted
   into life. Not growth, but grace saves us. (Text.)--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (1286)


                          GRACE, PERSEVERING

   Polycrates, a prosperous prince of the Egean shore long
   centuries ago, to ward off misfortune, caused a very valuable
   signet ring which he kept among his treasures, set in gold and
   of exquisite workmanship, to be carried far out to sea in a
   fifty-oared galley fully manned, and cast overboard. He saw it
   sink, to rise, as he supposed, no more. A few days afterward a
   fisherman plying his profession on that coast, caught a fish of
   extraordinary size and beauty, and took it to Polycrates, who
   was amazed to discover, on opening the fish, his own precious
   ring.

It is just as hard to lose divine grace and love which we are so apt to
throw away, but which persists in returning to us.

    (1287)


                           GRACE SUFFICIENT

   An eccentric divine preaching from “I will run in the way of thy
   commandments when thou shalt enlarge my heart,” began, “Well,
   David, what is your first remark? ‘I will run.’ Run away, David!
   What hinders you? What is your next word? ‘In the way of thy
   commandments.’ Better yet, David. And what next? ‘When thou
   shalt enlarge my heart.’ No thanks to you, David. We could all
   run as well as you with such help.”

    (1288)


                         GRACIOUSNESS IN WOMEN

   Some club women interested in civic reform were gathered in
   the office of a city executive waiting for an interview. They
   were charming, clever women, well drest, and at ease in any
   surroundings. As they waited they chatted of various things, and
   one told that her little son had been quite badly burned a few
   days before. The others spoke sympathetically. On the opposite
   side of the office sat a poor, battered wreck of womanhood,
   there on an errand widely different from theirs.

   “The next time your little boy gets burned you put linseed-oil
   and lime-water on it. You ought to keep it handy. There ain’t
   nothing like it to take out the fire,” said the poor creature.

   It was her assertion of sisterhood in the common trials of
   humanity.

   Most of the women froze instantly, indignant that she had dared
   address them in a familiar way. But the one faced her frankly.
   “Yes,” she said, “that is good. It is just what the doctor told
   me to use. It is kind of you to tell me about it.”

   There was no familiarity in her manner, nor was there a hint of
   superiority. She, too, recognized the universal sisterhood, and
   spoke to the woman across from her on that level.

   She was one of the women who always do the gracious thing
   because of an abiding grace within. There are too many women who
   appear charming in their own circle, but who must snub those
   they consider inferior. Manners at their best are but a poor
   substitute for the real graciousness that comes from the heart
   that has kindly thoughts for all.--_The Housekeeper._

    (1289)


   =Gradualness of Evil=--See DESTRUCTIVENESS.


   =Graft Rebuked=--See CHARACTER NOT PURCHASABLE.


                                 GRAIN

   The burning pen of inspiration, ranging heaven and earth for
   a similitude, to convey to our poor minds some not inadequate
   idea of the mighty doctrine of the resurrection, can find no
   symbol so expressive as “bare grain, it may chance of wheat
   or some other grain.” To-day a senseless plant, to-morrow it
   is human bone and muscle, vein and artery, sinew and nerve;
   beating pulse, heaving lungs, toiling, ah, sometimes overtoiling
   brain. Last June, it sucked from the cold breast of the earth
   the watery nourishment of its distending sap-vessels; and now
   it clothes the manly form with warm, cordial flesh; quivers
   and thrills with the five-fold mystery of sense; purveys and
   administers to the higher mystery of thought. Heaped up in your
   granaries this week, the next it will strike in the stalwart
   arm, and glow in the blushing cheek, and flash in the beaming
   eye; till we learn at last to realize that the slender stalk,
   which we have seen shaken by the summer breeze, bending in the
   corn-field under the yellow burden of harvest, is indeed the
   “staff of life,” which, since the world began, has supported
   the toiling and struggling myriads of humanity on the mighty
   pilgrimage of being.--EDWARD EVERETT.

    (1290)


                               GRATITUDE

   A young girl in Scotland was in danger of perishing in a storm,
   when the stream was in flood. She vowed that if God would save
   her life and help her in the future, she would build a bridge
   over the dangerous chasm. Her prayer was heard. She lived to
   build the bridge, and to leave an endowment for the poor of the
   parish. On the keystone of the bridge were written these words:
   “God and We.” That was the secret of success in her life-work.

    (1291)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A missionary in China met an aged man who was measuring with the
   length of his body a pilgrimage of one hundred miles. He would
   kotow; that is, bump his head three times upon the ground, then
   prostrate himself full length; get up, repeat, and still repeat.
   When asked why he was doing this he said: “My son was very
   ill. I prayed and vowed to the god of health that if he would
   spare my son, I would measure with my body every mile of this
   pilgrimage to the tombs of my ancestors. He was spared to me. I
   must keep my vow. No one can help me. I must go alone.”

Was he not presenting his body a living sacrifice, mistaken, of course,
in form, but faithful in spirit?

    (1292)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Out of gratitude to the girl who saved the lives of his three
   children when fire occurred at his home in Williamsburg,
   Brooklyn, William Landsberg cheerfully submitted himself to
   physicians at the Long Island College Hospital and allowed them
   to take forty square inches of skin from his body in order that
   it might be grafted upon the burned body of Miss Elsie Wobetta,
   who had been employed as a domestic at his home.

   Landsberg agreed to the operation when he learned that it was
   necessary in order to save the girl’s life. Earlier in the
   morning the physicians had already taken twenty square inches
   of skin from the unburnt portions of Miss Wobetta’s body, but
   this was not nearly enough to cover her frightful burns, and her
   condition was too precarious to submit her to another shock.

   Landsberg was notified, and he immediately quit work and went
   to the hospital, where he placed himself at the disposal of the
   surgeons.

   “It is the least I can do for the girl who saved the lives of my
   little ones,” he said calmly, when the doctors told him that the
   test would be a severe one.

   He was placed on the operating table and the operation of
   removing the skin was performed. Strips of skin an inch wide and
   five inches long were taken from Landsberg’s body.

   The operation brought to light the heroic act on the part of
   Miss Wobetta that should entitle her to a Carnegie medal. Some
   time ago fire broke out in the Landsberg home. The upper part of
   the house was soon in flames and during all the excitement--it
   was early in the morning--no one seemed to think of the three
   children of Landsberg except this young domestic, who fought
   her way through the stifling smoke and flames until she reached
   the nursery. There, altho her own clothing was aflame and she
   was almost stifled by the smoke, she rescued the three small
   children and helped carry them to a place of safety.

   She was frightfully burned on the arms, breast, side and back,
   and it was not thought for a long time that she could survive.
   For several weeks she lingered and the surgeons agreed that all
   that could save her life would be the grafting of new skin on
   the burned places that would not heal.

    (1293)

   See INVESTMENT RETURN; RESCUE; UNSELFISHNESS.


                       GRATITUDE, UNCALCULATING

Henry Van Dyke, in _The Outlook_, expresses the spontaneous nature
of true gratitude:

    Do you give thanks for this, or that? No, God be thanked,
      I am not grateful
    In that cold calculating way, with blessings ranked
      As one, two, three, and four--that would be hateful!

    I only know that every day brings good above
      My poor deserving;
    I only feel that on the road of life true Love
      Is leading me along and never swerving.

    Whatever turn the path may take to left or right,
      I think it follows
    The tracing of a wiser hand, through dark and light,
      Across the hills and in the shady hollows.

    Whatever gifts the hours bestow, or great or small,
      I would not measure
    As worth a certain price in praise, but take them all
      And use them all, with simple, heartfelt pleasure.

    For when we gladly eat our daily bread, we bless
      The hand that feeds us;
    And when we walk along life’s way in cheerfulness,
      Our very heart-beats praise the Love that leads us.

    (1294)


   =Gratuities=--See RIDICULE, APT.


                       GRAVITATION AND ICEBERGS

   The hundreds of thousands of icebergs that every spring and
   summer terrify our ocean steamers are simply detachments from
   the glaciers that perpetually cover the face of northern lands.
   As far as can be learned, the interior of Greenland has a
   surface of tall hills and deep gulches, with an elevated range
   rather on the eastern side, running from north to south. Hence,
   if the climate of the interior of Greenland were mild, this
   extended range would serve as a watershed diverting streams to
   the sea on both sides. But the temperature some distance inland
   is nearly always below the freezing point, so that the almost
   constant snowfall and the brief midsummer rains remain on the
   surface, accumulating year after year, till there are formed
   thousands of square miles of blue compact ice, some of it over
   1,500 feet thick. This enormous body of ice, like water, is
   subject to the laws of gravitation, and is eternally on the
   march to the sea. But its rate of travel is so slow as to be
   in most places imperceptible to the eye. So deep is this mass
   of inland ice that after a couple of days’ march from the sea
   there are no longer any hills visible, the entire landscape
   being white and naked. The ice from the higher ground is being
   constantly forced into the valleys and most of these valleys
   terminate toward the sea in very deep fjords. These fjords
   are in reality the launchways for most of the ice-floes and a
   great many of the bergs. You might lie for hours in your boat
   by most of the glaciers where they enter the sea, and not be
   aware that they were moving; but each one pushes constantly,
   and at a regular rate of speed, outward and outward into the
   sea, till the buoyancy of the water under it causes it to break
   at the shore, and sets it free to rove the ocean for thousands
   of miles, till it melts in Southern latitudes.--EDMUND
   COLLINS, _Harper’s Weekly_.

    (1295)


                          GRAVITATION, LAW OF

   Time after time astronomers have found seeming irregularities
   in the planets’ motions, which they could not explain by, nor
   deduce from this law of Newton’s (law of gravitation). In every
   case, however, later investigations showed the fault to lie in
   the imperfections of their methods; their calculations, or their
   assumptions in regard to the number and size of the planets
   were in error, not the law of gravitation. A discrepancy of
   only two minutes between the observed and theoretical places of
   Uranus led to the discovery of Neptune, and possibly the minute
   discrepancy in the motions of Mercury may lead to important
   discoveries regarding the properties or distribution of matter
   in the neighborhood of the sun.--CHARLES LANE POOR,
   “The Solar System.”

    (1296)


                          GRAVITATION, MORAL

   When the strata of the earth forms, the heaviest elements work
   down to the bottom, the next heaviest fall on these, and so on
   to the top, where the lightest will be found.

The same is true of men. You do not have to do anything to men to put
them down or lift them up. Every man sooner or later goes “to his own
place.”

    (1297)


                                GRAVITY

   Shiel told Moore of a good thing said by Keller, an Irish
   barrister. Keller, meeting some judge, an old friend of his,
   a steady, solemn fellow who had succeeded as much in his
   profession as Keller had failed, said to him: “In opposition
   to all the laws of natural philosophy, you have risen by your
   gravity, while I have sunk by my levity!” (Text.)--CROAKE
   JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (1298)


                   GREAT MEN SHOULD BE PROVIDED FOR

   We can not secure the great man’s arrival, but when he has come
   we can show that we know him and appreciate him, as the bees
   know and appreciate the one who is, of all others, most valuable
   to the hive. When “Dexter,” the famous race-horse owned by
   Robert Bonner, was found drawing a clay-cart, and the signs of
   speed in him were unmistakable, what a world of excitement there
   was! No harness was too fine, no stable too good for him. He had
   valets to attend his most delicate wants--watchers by night and
   by day. I do not say there was the slightest unappropriateness
   in this. I merely ask if the man of wonderful possibilities is
   not of as much account and deserving of as much care as the
   wonderful horse. The great man, or man of genius, will forego
   yachts and palaces and the muniments of wealth, tho he could
   enjoy them. What he needs at once is that sure provision which
   shall give him subsistence and leave him free from worldly toil
   and worry, as a prerequisite to prosecuting his work.--JOEL
   BENTON, _Lippincott’s_.

    (1299)


                        GREAT MEN’S BEGINNINGS

   The parents of Isaac Barrow, the celebrated English divine,
   conceived so mean an opinion of his temper and parts when he was
   a boy at the Charterhouse School, that his father used to say,
   if it pleased God to take from him any of his children, he hoped
   it might be Isaac, the least promising. Adam Clarke’s father
   was equally uncomplimentary to his own flesh and blood when he
   proclaimed his son to be “a grievous dunce.” Poe, at West Point,
   was a laughing-stock to his schoolmates. Sheridan’s mother
   presented him to a new tutor as “an incorrigible dunce.” Byron,
   at Harrow, was in no wise distinguished above his fellows.
   Napoleon and Wellington in their schooldays were distinguished
   only for dulness.--_Lippincott’s Magazine._

    (1300)


   =Great, The, and Little Contrasted=--See SINS, ACCUMULATED.


   =Greater, The, Controlling the Lesser=--See MASTER-MIND, THE.


                               GREATNESS

   Homer makes his hero, like Saul, a head and shoulders taller
   than the soldiers around him. And Egyptian artists paint their
   conquering monarch twenty times as tall as the pigmy enemy whom
   he is destroying at a single blow.

True greatness is more than stature.

    (1301)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Upon his return to Washington, Grant made preparations to leave
   immediately for the West, but at the close of a consultation
   with the President and the Secretary of War, he was informed
   that Mrs. Lincoln expected his presence the same evening at
   a military dinner to be given in his honor, at which twelve
   distinguished officers, then in the city, were to be present.
   Frank B. Carpenter, who was then at the White House, working on
   his celebrated painting, “Lincoln and His Cabinet,” says Grant
   turned to the President and said that it would be impossible
   for him to remain over as he must be in Tennessee at a given
   time. The President insisted that he could not be excused, and
   here we have another manifestation of Grant’s independence and
   willpower. He said to Lincoln: “But the time is very precious
   just now, and really, Mr. President, I believe I have had enough
   of this show business.”

   So, while the man of deeds--indifferent to blandishments and
   caring nothing for receptions--was speeding on his way to
   Nashville to meet Sherman and talk over the momentous business
   of trying to end the war, the twelve “distinguished” officers
   were banqueted without a guest of honor. But perhaps in the
   feasting and the merrymaking of the night, they could not but
   ponder over the strange things which had come to pass that
   day--a general so devoted to his duties in the field as to have
   no time or desire to be received by Congress or banqueted by
   the wife of a President; a man who had been out of the position
   of a common store-clerk hardly three years, given command of
   all the Union forces on land and sea; a great load lifted from
   the long-burdened heart of Lincoln; the bells of time ringing
   in a better day for the cause of the Union.--Col. NICHOLAS
   SMITH, “Grant, the Man of Mystery.”

    (1302)


                         GREATNESS APPRECIATED

Mr. Moore, writing in _The Congregationalist_ on “The Benediction
of a Statue,” says:

   The man was only one of the thousands that have stopt for a
   moment or two at least in front of the Phillips Brooks statue
   during the past week. He was a working man of about fifty, with
   a strong, square-jawed, bronzed face. He had evidently come over
   to look at the statue during the noon hour, for he had on his
   blue flannel shirt and carpenter’s overalls. He gazed a moment
   and then brushed his eyes rather furtively.

   “How do you like the statue?” he was asked.

   “It’s fine, but isn’t quite Phillips Brooks. It’s a strong face
   like his, but I sort of miss the light in the eyes. It isn’t as
   kind-looking as Phillips Brooks.”

   “You knew him, then?”

   “Yes, I knew him well. I have talked with him many times. He
   always spoke to me on the street. He used to always ask about
   the wife and baby, and now--the wife has gone on beyond, too.”

   He took a last look at the statue and then hurried away, for it
   was almost one o’clock. Just then a colored man of about forty
   joined the group.

   “Know him? Why, I knew him as well as I know my wife. I used
   to be charman of a house just a few doors away from his on
   Clarendon Street. He always said, ‘Good-morning, John,’ to
   me when he met me, as he was going over to the church in the
   morning. Of course, when I knew him he was older than the statue
   shows him. He never spoke to you like he was saying, ‘I’m the
   rich Mr. Brooks.’ He treated you just like you was as good as
   him.”

   Two messenger-boys stopt for a moment. “Who’s that man?” one
   asked the other.

   “Why, that’s a great preacher that used to preach in that
   church. They say he was an awfully good man. They say he could
   preach like anything, and yet he was just as common with folks
   as anybody.”

   An intelligent, rather elderly Hebrew was criticizing the statue
   very severely to several people, but he said: “I used to go to
   school with him. He was certainly a wonderful preacher and a
   very, very good man. He surely deserved the best statue Boston
   could ever put up for him. But I dislike the background and the
   other figure in this very much.”

    (1303)


                        GREATNESS CALLED FORTH

At every great call for great deeds the right man comes out of the
common crowd to do it, this is the truth Sam. Walter Foss enforces in
these verses:

    Men seem as alike as the leaves on the trees,
    As alike as the bees in the swarming of bees;
    And we look at the millions that make up the state,
    All equally little and equally great,
      And the pride of our courage is cowed.
    Then fate calls for a man who is larger than men,
    There is a surge in the crowd--there’s a movement--and then
    There arises the man who is larger than men--
      And the man comes up from the crowd.

    The chasers of trifles run hither and yon,
    And the mean little days of small trifles go on,
    And the world seems no better at sunset than dawn,
    And the race still increases its plentiful spawn,
      And the voice of our wailing is loud.
    Then the great deed calls out for the great man to come,
    And the crowd unbelieving, sits sullen and dumb--
    But the great deed is done, for the great man is come--
      Ay, the man comes up from the crowd. (Text.)

    (1304)


                         GREATNESS DISCOUNTED

   Daniel Webster in the very height of his fame, just after
   his famous Bunker Hill speech, took a run down to his native
   village which he had not visited in so many years that he found
   himself quite unrecognized by his former cronies. Accosting an
   old friend of the Websters, he gradually, after due discussion
   of the weather and the crops, turned the conversation upon his
   own family. Thereupon his companion burst out into enthusiastic
   encomiums upon the virtues and abilities of Daniel’s elder
   brother Ebenezer, who had died young and whose early death
   he fittingly deplored. Daniel slipt in a modest query as to
   whether there was not a brother named Dan. “He never was much
   account,” said the old gentleman, with a shake of his head.
   “I believe he went up to Boston and became some kind of a
   lawyer.”--_Lippincott’s Magazine._

    (1305)


                           GREATNESS, HEROIC

A truly great soul is the man described by Sarah Knowles Bolton in the
verse below:

    I like the man who faces what he must
      With heart triumphant and a step of cheer;
      Who fights the daily battle without fear;
    Sees his hopes fail, yet keeps unfaltering trust
    That God is God; that somehow, true and just,
      His plans work out for mortals; not a tear
      Is shed when fortune, which the world holds dear,
    Falls from his grasp; better, with love, a crust
    Than living in dishonor; envies not,
      Nor loses faith in man; but does his best,
    Nor even murmurs at his humbler lot;
      But with a smile and words of hope, gives zest
    To every toiler; he alone is great
    Who by a life heroic conquers fate.

    (1306)


                      GREATNESS, HUMAN, A BAUBLE

   Having strayed by some odd eddy of circumstance into the House
   of Lords, when the King was present, John Wesley draws a
   picturesque little vignette of him.

   “I was in the robe-chamber, adjoining the House of Lords,
   when the King (George II) put on his robes. His brow was much
   furrowed with age, and quite clouded with care. And is this
   all the world can give even to a king, all the grandeur it can
   afford? A blanket of ermine round his shoulders, so heavy and
   cumbersome he can scarce move under it! A huge heap of borrowed
   hair, with a few plates of gold and glittering stones upon
   his head! Alas, what a bauble is human greatness!”--W. H.
   FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (1307)


                           GREATNESS IN MEN

Edwin Markham describes a noble type of man in the following poem:

    Give thanks, O heart, for the high souls
    That point us to the deathless goals--
    For all the courage of their cry
    That echoes down from sky to sky;
    Thanksgiving for the armed seers
    And heroes called to mortal years--
    Souls that have built our faith in man,
    And lit the ages as they ran.

    Made of unpurchasable stuff.
    They went the way when ways were rough;
    They, when the traitors had deceived,
    Held the long purpose, and believed;
    They, when the face of God grew dim,
    Held through the dark and trusted Him--
    Brave souls that fought the mortal way
    And felt that faith could not betray.

    Give thanks for heroes that have stirred
    Earth with the wonder of a word.
    But all thanksgiving for the breed
    Who have bent destiny with deed--
    Souls of the high, heroic birth,
    Souls sent to poise the shaken earth,
    And then called back to God again
    To make heaven possible for men. (Text.)

    --_The Independent._

    (1308)


                           GREATNESS OF GOD

The following verse from “The Marshes of Glynn,” by Sidney Lanier,
shows how a reverent poet can see symbols of God and His care in a
marsh:

    Oh, what is abroad in the marsh and the terminal sea?
    Somehow my soul seems suddenly free
    From the weighing of life and the sad discussion of sin,
    By the length and the breadth and the sweep of the marshes of Glynn.

    Ye marshes, how candid and simple and nothing-withholding and free
    Ye publish yourselves to the sky and offer yourselves to the sea!
    Tolerant plains, that suffer the sea and the rains and the sun,
    Ye spread and span like the catholic man who hath mightily won
    God out of knowledge and good out of infinite pain
    And sight out of blindness and purity out of a stain.

    As the marsh-hen secretly builds on the watery sod,
    Behold I will build me a nest on the greatness of God;
    I will fly in the greatness of God as the marsh-hen flies
    In the freedom that fills all the space ’twixt the marsh and the skies:

    By so many roots as the marsh-grass sends in the sod
    I will heartily lay me a-hold on the greatness of God;
    Oh, like the greatness of God is the greatness within
    The range of the marshes, the liberal marshes of Glynn.

    (1309)


                           GREATNESS SERVING

   A mother and daughter were traveling through a forest. Overcome
   by the long journey, the mother fainted and fell by the wayside.
   As soon as consciousness was partly restored to her she sent her
   little child to seek out a minister. The little daughter went
   weeping on her way. She soon met a stranger riding a horse. The
   man inquired of her why she was weeping. She asked him if he
   were God’s minister, and he said that he was. She led him to the
   side of her dying mother. His bodyguard soon arrived. Reverently
   did they uncover as they found the King of England kneeling in
   prayer for the dying peasant. The greatest among them was their
   servant. (Text.)

    (1310)


                      GREATNESS, TRUE, OF A CITY

    What makes a city great and strong?
      Not architecture’s graceful strength,
      Nor factories’ extended length,
    But men who see the civic wrong
      And give their lives to make it right,
      And turn its darkness into light.

    What makes a city full of power?
      Not wealth’s display nor titled fame,
      Not fashion’s loudly-boasted claim,
    But women, rich in virtue’s dower,
      Whose homes, tho humble, still are great
      Because of service to the state.

    What makes a city men can love?
      Not things that charm the outward sense,
      Nor gross display of opulence,
    But right, that wrong can not remove,
      And truth, that faces civic fraud
      And smites it in the name of God.

    This is a city that shall stand,
      A light upon a nation’s hill,
      A voice that evil can not still,
    A source of blessing to the land;
      Its strength not brick, nor stone, nor wood,
      But justice, love and brotherhood.

    --_Author Unknown._

    (1311)


   =Greatness Unrecognized=--See HELP, UNEXPECTED.


                                 GREED

   The large families in this country to-day are to be found only
   in the industrial centers. Greedy men have considered this their
   opportunity, and have located great stocking and silk factories
   in these places for the sake of employing the children of these
   families.

   I saw in the ill-ventilated rooms of these silk-factories girls
   by the dozen under fourteen years of age. More than once I saw a
   stoop-shouldered, anemic girl, apparently not more than eleven
   years of age, standing all day before her machine so fatigued
   that she stood on one foot while she rested the other by holding
   it against the leg on which she was standing. To my inquiry as
   to her age the reply was, “The affidavit said she was fourteen.”

   A girl in whose machine the silk by chance became tangled was
   approached by a foreman with the jaw of a bulldog and a face
   whose every feature indicated brutality, and who poured out
   a stream of profanity as he threatened to dismiss her if it
   occurred again. These girls were the daughters of coal-miners or
   of a coal-miner’s widow.

   We are pretty generally agreed that society owes to every one
   equal treatment with his fellows in an effort to get a living
   and an equal protection in using the opportunities that exist.
   When one looks into the hollow cheeks and sunken eyes of
   veritable children to whom in so many cases the home was never
   the holy of holies, and where instead of the gentle voice and
   loving hearts of teachers there is the brutal taskmaster, one
   feels the need of some new Declaration of Independence.

   A railroad that owns and operates mines in this region, last
   year, in addition to an already fat dividend on its stock,
   declared a stock dividend of fifty per cent. Would that it were
   possible to print on every share of that dividend a description
   of the existence that is called life in this section of our
   land! (Text.)--JESSE HILL, _Christian Endeavor
   World_.

    (1312)

   See DISHONESTY; GAME OF GREED.


   =Greed, Commercial=--See CRUELTY.


                           GRIEF, EXPRESSING

   Great griefs can seldom be borne in silence; nor is it well
   that they should be. Just as the cry of pain springs to the
   lips of a child when it is hurt, so the wounded spirit longs
   for utterance to ease its sorrow. Far from being a rebellious
   and unnatural desire, this longing to somehow unburden the
   soul in words is a merciful gift of God, who, even when he
   chastens, would fain temper the wind to the shorn lamb. See
   how the noblest souls have sought and found, not only a balm
   for sorrow, but sorrow’s own deeper meaning in uttering their
   heart’s profoundest cry. Think of that magnificent memorial poem
   in which Tennyson gathered up, as in a sacred urn, the fragments
   of his broken heart. Was his sorrow for Hallam the less, that
   he thus robbed it of its bitterest sting, the sting of helpless
   silence and hopeless brooding? Was Cicero less noble, less
   heroic, because, after the death of his beloved daughter Tullia,
   he wrote a treatise, on consolation to alleviate his sorrow?
   No; utterance sanctifies the grief whose pang it softens. God
   does not will that we should suffer in white-lipped silence. He
   never drives the barbed arrow into the human heart.--_Zion’s
   Herald._

    (1313)


                            GRIEF, REVEALED

Clinton Dangerfield discounts in this poem the stoicism of the age that
refuses to reveal its griefs and evils:

    Sad hearts are out of date. We laugh and jest,
      When we take wounds as well as when we strike.
    One can not tell the conquerors on Love’s field--
      Victors and vanquished look so much alike!

    But sometimes when the mask unguarded falls
      One sees the actor’s self behind the part,
    And half holds those the wiser who, of old,
      Washed, unashamed, with tears a broken heart. (Text.)

    --_The Delineator._

    (1314)


                              GRIEVANCES

   A man strikes me with a sword, and inflicts a wound. Suppose,
   instead of binding up the wound, I am showing it to everybody,
   and, after it has been bound up, I am taking off the bandage
   constantly and examining the depth of the wound, and making it
   fester--is there a person in the world who would not call me a
   fool? However, such a fool is he who, by dwelling upon little
   injuries or insults, cause them to agitate and influence his
   mind. How much better were it to put a bandage on the wound and
   never look at it again!

    (1315)

       *       *       *       *       *

   I once said to a woman who had suddenly lost her best friend
   after years of the closest intimacy, without a quarrel or scene,
   and for no apparent reason, “every time he thinks of you he will
   be filled with remorse.” She replied, “Remorse? Not at all. He
   is quite sure that all the fault lies on my side. In retrospect,
   he has created imaginary grievance.” I indignantly protested,
   ready even to pity her the more. She smilingly silenced me by
   putting her finger on my lips, saying: “Do not pity me, I might
   have had grievances, but I have none; in spite of everything,
   mine is the better part.” And she was right.

   Grievances are like a double-edged sword that wounds on one
   side the heart it enters, on the other the heart that sends
   it forth, and the most unhappy heart always holds the weapon,
   for the point that pierces sinks into depths from whence it
   is difficult to draw it from the wound. In reality everybody
   is a victim to grievances; they that harbor as well as they
   who create them, and for this reason frank explanations are
   never resorted to. And the saddest thing of all is, that the
   causes are often so slight and the suffering so great, as in
   the case of the Neapolitan, who, having never read the works of
   Tasso and Ariosto, fought seventeen duels on their respective
   merits.--DORA MELEGARI, “Makers of Sorrow and Makers of
   Joy.”

    (1316)


                                 GRIP

   “He seems to have lost his grip,” said one man to another in
   talking of an acquaintance who had not been long in the ranks of
   the “middle-aged.” They both felt that their friend had talents;
   they longed to see him apply them with judgment and success.
   The term “grip” was an expressive one. Whatever one’s work may
   be, it can not be properly done unless the worker has firm hold
   of his tools. Lack of grip may often be resolved into lack of
   incentive, and, therefore, whoever imparts to his comrade a
   sufficient motive for holding fast, is doing him service of the
   most effectual kind.--Providence _Journal_.

    (1317)


   =Growing Old=--See OLD, HOW TO GROW.


                           GROWING TOO FAST

   It is said that during the wars of Frederick II of Prussia
   men became so scarce that they actually enrolled schoolboys.
   If there happened to be a child that was growing too fast
   the parents would be heard to say, “Don’t grow so fast or
   the recruiting officer will catch you.” Do not rush into
   responsibility. (Text.)

    (1318)


   =Growth=--See ASSIMILATION; FAITH IN GOD.


                           GROWTH, CAUSE OF

   Carbon from the air entering the cells of plants comes in
   contact with a substance called chlorophyll resident in the
   cells. A wonderful change at once takes place. When the sun is
   shining, the carbonic acid and water contained in the cells are
   decomposed; _i.e._, separated into the parts composing
   them. These, with the carbon, then unite again and form a new
   substance very different from either the carbon or the water,
   viz., starch or like substance, which, with some of the mineral
   matters supplied through the soil water, serves as food for the
   protoplasm of the cells, so that the latter increase in number
   rapidly and thus cause the plant to grow.

   There is real growth of the soul of man only when the divine
   spirit unites with the human powers. (Text.)

    (1319)


   =Growth, Curious=--See OBSTACLES, UNEXPECTED.


                             GROWTH, EVIL

   Educators make much of growth, nor can we over-emphasize the
   importance of the principle. But if the thing that is increasing
   is bad, then growth is a curse immeasurable. Given a spark
   and growth means a conflagration that ruins a city. Given a
   gipsy-moth in the parks of New England and growth means the
   devastation of the forests of a State. Given a disease, and
   growth means death. Given any form of sin, and growth means
   the wreckage of character and destiny. (Text.)--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (1320)


   =Growth in Educational Work=--See NEEDS, MEETING CHILDREN’S.


                           GROWTH IN NATURE

   Once, a half-century ago or more, a farmer and his men came down
   from the pastures, and for purposes of their own cut a ditch
   straight through the middle of the bog to the open water. The
   hundreds of scrawny night-herons, sitting on pale blue eggs in
   scraggly nests in the cedar swamp, must have heard the cedars
   laugh as this went on. It was the swamp’s opportunity. Where the
   farmer and his men with incredible labor cut and tore away the
   marsh-grass roots the cedars planted their seeds, and called
   upon the alders and the swamp-maples and the thoroughwort, the
   Joe Pye weed, and a host of other good citizens of the swamp to
   help them.

   So vigorous was the sortie and so well did they hold their
   ground, that you may trace the farmer’s wide ditch to-day only
   as a causeway down which the swamp has come to build a great
   wooden area in the midst of the bog, accomplishing in half a
   century what it might not have done in five times had it not
   been for human aid.--WINTHROP PACKARD, “Wild Pastures.”

    (1321)


   =Growth, Spiritual=--See SPIRITUAL PERTURBATION.


   =Growth Through Struggle=--See STRUGGLE AND GROWTH.


                          GROWTH, UNCONSCIOUS

Moses, when he came down from the mountain, “wist not” that his face
shone. So in much of our spiritual life, we are unconscious of the fact
of growth. As a writer upon life in the fields likening the spiritual
life to that of the seed says:

   But all the winter through, tho it was hidden by frost and
   snow, the seed was growing beneath the earth; the difference
   is that now we can see it. And so it is with the growth of the
   soul. The soul is growing, tho we do not know it, in its winter
   weather, when all is dead and cold and dark; when the Spirit has
   convinced us of sin and we say, “I seem to have no part and lot
   with the saints, no joy nor peace; I only feel the burden of my
   iniquities; I question whether I am a living soul.” Ah, but the
   seed sown by the hand of God is growing through all those wintry
   days; if a man can feel and lament his weakness, his deadness,
   his barrenness, he is a living soul. (Text.)

    (1322)


   =Growths, Undesirable=--See BARRIERS.


   =Guardian Friends=--See PLEDGE-KEEPING.


                          GUARDS OF THE SOUL

   As there is a silence that thunders, so there is a severity that
   is the inflection of pity and love. That is not the kindest
   surgeon who refuses to make the wounded soldier suffer. That
   is not the truest mother who lets the child work its own will
   and riot in selfish pleasures. It is not a little thing for
   a pilgrim to make his way across a dark continent. Are there
   serpents and wild beasts in the jungle? Then on either side of
   the path through the forest let thorn-bushes be planted that
   they may scourge the child back into the path. Is the chasm
   deep? A veritable abyss? Then, when the bridge is strung across
   the gulf, let a railing be placed on either side, with sharp
   prongs of iron to hold the child back from the edge of the
   bridge, lest in a careless mood he fall and be crusht upon the
   cruel rocks beneath. It is a dangerous journey that man makes
   through the wilderness. And God has planted on either side of
   the way the Ten Commandments like ten thorn-bushes, buttresses
   and guards, that the pilgrim may be confined to the path that
   leads to prosperity, safety and peace--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1323)


   =Guest Surprized=--See TACT.


   =Guidance=--See SAFETY FROM WATER-BROOKS; TRUST.


                            GUIDANCE, GOD’S

    In the stern of a sea-going vessel,
      At morning, at noon and at night,
    I saw there a sturdy old boatswain
      Who stood and uplifted his sight
    To the mast that was towering above him,
      While pendulant hung from his lip
    The whistle whose shrill intonations
      Determined the course of the ship.

    And I wondered at what he was gazing
      Till, stepping behind him, I stood
    And followed his angle of vision
      High up on the pillar of wood;
    And there, far above the attraction
      Of body of iron or steel,
    Was fastened a compass whose needle
      Corrected the man at the wheel.

    O wonderful lesson of science,
      That crystaled in parable there,
    And brought in its transparent vision
      The meaning and purpose of prayer!
    I, too, am adrift on the ocean,
      My compass, the spirit of man,
    And with hand on the wheel of life’s rudder,
      I only can steer as I can.

    But, praise to God’s infinite goodness,
      Thy compass above I can see--
    The needle of truth that Thy spirit
      Holds true for the spirit of me.
    Unswerved by earth’s baser attraction,
      It points to the glories that shine;
    I read it at morning and evening,
      And reckon my bearings from Thine. (Text.)

    (1324)

       *       *       *       *       *

Thomas F. Porter, in the Boston _Globe_, expresses in these verses
the confidence of faith in God’s guidance:

    It matters not what course my ship may go,
      That leaves the port ’neath skies so calm and clear;
    Tho later threatening winds may wildly blow,
      Of harm I have no fear.

    The storm may beat in fury ’round my bark,
      The ocean’s spray up to the masthead leap,
    The way be long, the night be starless dark,
      Secure my course I keep.

    It matters not how swift may be the tide,
      Tho lightning cleave with lurid flame the sky;
    But that my ship will every storm outride,
      On this I can rely.

    Nor does it matter when the goal I gain,
      Nor if the ship be stript of every mast,
    My heart no lips will murmur nor complain,
      When safe the anchor’s cast.

    Why, there is such a flood of hope in me,
      To doubting hearts this much I will reveal:
    The Hand that launched my bark on life’s great sea
      Is ever at the wheel.

    (1325)


   =Guidance, Spiritual=--See SPIRIT, WINDS OF THE.


                           GUIDANCE EVILWARD

   A story is told of certain mariners who followed the direction
   of their compass, believing it to be infallibly right as
   a guide, till they arrived at an enemy’s port, where they
   were seized and made slaves. The secret was that the wicked
   captain, in order to betray the ship and to beguile them into
   obliquities, had hidden a large loadstone at a little distance
   on one side of the needle. (Text.)

    (1326)


   =Guide and Traveler=--See CONFIDENCE.


                          GUIDE, THE PERFECT

   Once I was out with a guide climbing a mountain, and the guide
   himself lost his way. He was compelled, greatly chagrined, to
   beat about for quite a while till he found it. This could never
   happen to Christ.

   Sometimes a guide in the Alps, in spite of all his care, loses
   the life of a traveler. The unfortunate man may slip and the
   rope may break; or, if the rope holds, he may be heavy enough to
   drag down his guide with him into the crevasse.

   When a traveler hesitated to place his foot in the hand of a
   guide who asked him to step upon it out over a precipice when
   rounding a perilous turn, the guide reassured him by saying,
   “This hand never lost a life.” That was true of the guide, but
   it did not prove that he never would lose a life.

Of Christ’s hand stretched out to help us it may be said truly:
“This hand never lost a life, and never can lose one.”--AMOS R.
WELLS, in _The Christian Endeavor World_.

    (1327)


   =Guides=--See EXPERIENCE, VALUE OF.


   =Guides and Prayer=--See BLESSING THE ROPES.


                                 GUILT

The only thing needed to show guilt or innocence is sufficient light:

   Aaron Burr once defended a prisoner charged with murder, and as
   the trial proceeded it became too manifest to him that the guilt
   of the murder lay between the prisoner and one of the witnesses
   for the prosecution. He accordingly subjected this witness to
   a searching and relentless cross-examination; and then, as he
   addrest the jury in the gathering dusk of evening, he brought
   into strong relief every fact that bore against this witness,
   and suddenly seizing two candelabra from the table, he threw a
   glare of light on the witness’s face, and exclaimed, “Behold the
   murderer, gentlemen!” Alarmed and conscience-stricken, the man
   reeled as from a blow, turned ghastly pale, and left the court.
   The advocate concluded his speech in a tone of triumph, and the
   jury acquitted the prisoner. (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES,
   “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (1328)




                                   H


                                 HABIT

Says Jeremiah, “Can the Ethiopian change his skin or the leopard his
spots? then may ye also do good, that are accustomed to evil.” The last
chapter in the biography of habits is its enthronement, its tyranny
over the will. The tragedy of every habit is that instead of being an
aid to the will, it becomes its master. Donald Sage Mackay, in “The
Religion of the Threshold,” says:

   Henry Drummond once told of a man who had gone to a London
   physician to consult about his eyes. The physician looked into
   the man’s eyes with a delicate ophthalmoscope, and then said
   quietly to the man. “My friend, you are practising a certain
   sin, and unless you give it up, in six months you will be
   blind.” For a moment the man stood trembling in the agony of
   discovery, and then, turning to the sunlit window, he looked out
   and exclaimed, “Farewell, sweet light, farewell!”

    (1329)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A man named Patch, having been charged with murder, his
   solicitor carefully examined the premises and situation, and
   came to the conclusion that the murderer must have been a
   left-handed man. The solicitor informed Sergeant Best, in
   consultation, that he had noticed Patch, when taking his dinner,
   using his knife with the left hand. In a conference before the
   trial, the sergeant prest the prisoner to say whether he was
   not left-handed, but he protested he was not. When the prisoner
   was arraigned at the bar on the day of trial, and was called
   on to plead, he answered, “Not guilty,” and at once, of course
   unconsciously, held up his left hand.--CROAKE JAMES,
   “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (1330)

   Slowly and insidiously do the evil habits grow until they become
   as gnarled crooked trees which none may straighten; little by
   little the gossamer thread becomes a cart-rope which none may
   break; imperceptibly does the film of ice spread over the river,
   holding the waters before long in a grasp which Niagara could
   not burst. The character is stereotyped; the life moves in
   deep downward grooves. Says the modern determinist, “By habit
   the mind is reduced into servitude.” Says the apostle, “We are
   sold under sin.”--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured
   Sackcloth.”

    (1331)

   See ROUTINE.


                            HABIT AUTOMATIC

   If a sleeping-plant is placed in a dark room after it has
   gone to sleep at night, it will be found next morning in the
   light-position, and will again assume the nocturnal position
   as evening comes. We have, in fact, what seems to be a habit
   built by the alternation of day and night. The plant normally
   drops its leaves at the stimulus of darkness and raises them at
   the stimulus of light. But here we see the leaves rising and
   falling in the absence of the accustomed stimulation. This is
   the characteristic par excellence of habit. When a series of
   actions are compelled to follow each other by applying a series
   of stimuli they become organically tied together, or associated,
   and follow each other automatically, even when the whole series
   of stimuli are not acting.--_The Scientific American._

    (1332)


                            HABIT, BREAKING

   A story is told of an English minister who offered a prize to
   the boy who would write the best composition in five minutes on
   “How to Overcome a Habit.”

   At the expiration of five minutes the compositions were read.
   The prize went to a lad of nine years. The following is his
   essay:

   “Well, sir, habit is hard to overcome. If you take off the first
   letter, it does not change ‘a bit.’ If you take off another, you
   still have a ‘bit’ left. If you take off still another the whole
   of ‘it’ remains. If you take off another, it is wholly used up;
   all of which goes to show that if you want to get rid of habit
   you must throw it off altogether.”

    (1333)


                             HABIT IN WORK

   All his life Mark Twain was an inveterate smoker, and one of the
   most leisurely men in the world. An old pressman, who was once
   printer’s devil in an office where Mark was editorial writer,
   tells this anecdote of his habits of work. “One of my duties was
   to sweep the room where editors worked. Every day Mark would
   give me a nickel to get away from him. He would rather die in
   the dust than uncross his legs. One day he gave me a nickel to
   dot an ‘i’ in his copy for him. He certainly did enjoy life,
   that man did.”--New York _Evening Post_.

    (1334)


                 HABIT, PHYSIOLOGICAL CONSEQUENCES OF

The following bit of information is from _La Nature_:

   Men of a singular race have been discovered in New Guinea, and
   the governor, it seems, has promised to send some specimens to
   London. Living as they do in the marshes, these men have no
   need to walk. On the other hand, the marshes are covered with a
   growth that prevents navigation in canoes. The men have built
   huts in trees, and as organs of prehension alone are useful to
   them, their lower limbs have almost atrophied. These natives
   have only feeble and withered legs and feet, while the chest and
   arms are of normal development. They can scarcely stand upright,
   and they walk like large apes. They thus give the impression
   of cripples who have been deprived of the use of their lower
   extremities.

    (1335)


                          HABIT, THE POWER OF

Samuel Adjai Crowther, an African slave-boy who became a bishop,
delighted to tell to his children the story of how he put on his first
shoes. In “The Black Bishop” Jesse Page gives the story in the bishop’s
own words. Four of the pupils in the missionary’s school had been
promoted to the position of monitors. This was at Fourah Bay College,
under Rev. Charles Haensel:

   To give effect to our position, we were allowed to wear shoes.
   Strong, stout shoes, with very thick soles, were procured and
   given to us; they were called “Blucher shoes.”

   On a Saturday afternoon we were called, received a pair each,
   and were told to wear them every Sunday to church at St.
   George’s Cathedral, a distance of about three miles.

   Never having had shoes on before, we began practising in our
   dormitory that evening. None of us could move a step after
   lacing up on our feet the unwieldy articles, and consequently we
   were objects of laughter to our pupils.

   An idea struck me which I at once put into execution. Crawling
   to a corner of the room, I first knelt down, then holding on
   to the wall for support, I stood up, and still being supported
   by the wall, I stept round the room many times, the others
   following my example, till we were able to leave the wall, stand
   alone, or move about without support.

   You can well imagine what a burden this was to us, and after
   losing sight of the college, we sat on the grass, took off
   the shoes, walked barefoot, and put them on only at the porch
   of the church. We did the same on returning to college. After
   some months’ practise we were able to move better in them, but
   complained how they hurt our feet, and would rather be without
   them. But after some months we invested in the purchase of
   boots ourselves, and were always careful to buy those that made
   noise and creaked as we walked, to our great delight and the
   admiration of our pupils.--_The Youth’s Companion._

    (1336)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Helen M. Winslow declares that it was her intention from
   childhood to become a writer, and that she early obtained a
   position on the staff of a city newspaper. During a period
   covering several years she had charge of twenty-eight columns
   a week, on three papers, all of which she filled without help
   from subordinates. She worked eight hours a day in a dark,
   dingy office, and six more in her “den” at home every night,
   going to theaters from twice to five times a week, and working
   all day Sunday to bring up the ends. She edited news-columns,
   fashion, health, dramatic, hotel, book-review, railroad,
   bicycle, fancy-work, kitchen, woman’s club, society, palmistry
   and correspondence departments, and withal kept up an editorial
   column for eight years. Then she started a journal of her own.
   She worked like a slave for seven years more, wrote articles,
   editorials, read manuscripts and books, kept up an enormous
   correspondence, solicited most of her advertisements, and went
   to the printing-office every issue to attend personally to the
   details of “make-up” and proof-reading.

   “But you have had your day,” a younger woman said to her, “why
   grumble now?” “Because it was not the day I wanted, and I only
   meant to make it the stepping-stone to something better. I did
   not want to be a newspaper woman and nothing more; and now that
   I have leisure for something more, I find my mental faculties,
   instead of being sharpened for further use, dulled. I have done
   desultory work so long I can not take up anything more thorough.
   I have been a ‘hack’ too many years. I can not be a race-horse
   now.” (Text.)

    (1337)


   =Hair-splitting=--See WORD-JUGGLING.


   =Hand, Use of Right=--See TRADITION.


   =Handicap of Ill Health=--See BODY, MASTERING THE.


                         HANDICAPS, OVERCOMING

   Charles A. Spencer was a lens-maker, and devoted years to the
   perfection of achromatic lenses. He had devised a process so
   delicate that he could adjust the curve of the lens so as to
   increase the defining and resolving power of the lens beyond all
   other opticians. But a fire destroyed his shop and nearly all of
   his tools, which had taken years of toil and study to construct,
   together with a large amount of finished and unfinished work. He
   was badly crippled, and had to begin all over again, and only
   with the utmost toil and perseverance was he able, little by
   little, to replace the necessary tools and recover his former
   position.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (1338)


                          HANDIWORK OF NATURE

   The down upon the peach or plum is so delicate and so thickly
   set that one can not touch the fruit with a needle’s point
   without breaking the tender stalk; and yet the dew of the night
   covers the whole surface of the fruit and disappears in the
   morning, leaving the gossamer growth more orderly and beautiful
   than before. The dew covers every leaf of the giant oak, and the
   mighty tree drinks in the refreshing moisture to its thirsty
   heart through millions of pores, and the iron trunk which has
   withstood a thousand storms is made stronger by the gentle
   strength of the dew. The silent fall of the dew is caused and
   controlled by agencies of the most tremendous power; the same
   power that shakes a whole continent with its subterranean
   thunder is the same as that which encircles the finest filament
   of thistle-down with a coronet of dewy gems so small that they
   do not bend the delicate stalks with their weight.--London
   _Globe_.

    (1339)


                            HANDS, HELPING

   A German legend tells of a poor lad, the only son of his widowed
   mother, who went out every morning to earn bread for both, when
   he found a pair of giant hands helping him in every task.

What are the forces of nature when enlisted on one’s side but just such
giant hands?

    (1340)


                               HAPPINESS

   The stream is not marred, it is made only more beautiful, when
   broken by rocks, and sweeping through eddies, than when silently
   gliding through the sodded canal. And so the happiness which
   is found in a course passed amid the conditions that invest
   us in this life, may be only brighter, more full and more
   animated, for its very interruptions. The pleasure shall be more
   radiant than ever, when contrasting the darkness of an overpast
   sorrow.--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (1341)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Dr. Raffles once said: “I have made it a rule never to be with
   any one ten minutes without trying to make him happier.” It was
   a remark of Dr. Dwight that one who makes a little child happier
   for half an hour is a fellow worker with God.

   A little boy said to his mother: “I couldn’t make sister happy
   nohow I could fix it. But I made myself happy trying to make
   her happy.” “I make Jim happy,” said another boy, speaking of
   his invalid brother. “He laughs and that makes me happy, and I
   laugh.” “To love and to be loved,” said Sydney Smith, “is the
   greatest happiness of existence.”

    (1342)


                          HAPPINESS AS A GOD

   Entomologists tell us that millions of insects, generations
   whose numbers must be counted by myriads, are born and die
   within the compass of one summer’s day. Perfected with the
   morning, they flutter through their sunny life; and the evening,
   when it turns its shadow upon the earth, becomes to their
   animated and tuneful being a universal grave. It is impossible
   to understand for what end this is done, unless we accept the
   happiness which these share, as a good in itself; a good so
   great, in the judgment of the Creator, and of those who look
   with Him on the creation, as to justify the expenditure of such
   wisdom and force on their delicate, harmonious, but ephemeral
   structure; and to make this structure illustrative of His
   glory.--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (1343)


                        HAPPINESS COMMUNICATED

   In Los Angeles, when the rose festival comes, the child,
   going through the streets, breathes perfume, and for days the
   sweetness clings to the garments. And all good men exhale
   happiness as they pass through life.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1344)


                         HAPPINESS, DEARTH OF

   Lord Byron, who drank of every cup that earth could give him,
   and who had all the ministries of earth around him, with an
   intellectual and physical nature that could dive down into
   deepest depths and could soar to the highest heights, whose
   wings when spread could touch either pole, just before he died,
   sitting in a gay company, was meditative and moody. They looked
   at him and said, “Byron, what are you thinking so seriously
   about?” “Oh,” he said, “I was sitting here counting up the
   number of happy days I have had in this world. I can count but
   eleven, and I was wondering if I would ever make up the dozen
   in this world of tears and pangs and sorrows.” (Text.)--“Famous
   Stories of Sam P. Jones.”

    (1345)


                         HAPPINESS FROM WITHIN

   We think that if a certain event were to come to pass, if some
   rare good fortune should befall us, our stock of happiness would
   be permanently increased, but the chances are that it would not;
   after a time we should settle back to the old every-day level.
   We should get used to the new conditions, the new prosperity,
   and find life wearing essentially the same tints as before. Our
   pond is fed from hidden springs; happiness is from within, and
   outward circumstances have but little power over it.--JOHN
   HABBERTON, _The Chautauquan_.

    (1346)


                         HAPPINESS, IMPARTING

   A poor man went into a wealthy merchant’s counting-house one
   day and saw piles of bank-notes which the clerks were busy in
   counting. The poor man thought of his desolate home, and the
   needs of his family, and, almost without thinking, he said to
   himself, “Ah! how happy a very little of that money would make
   me!” The merchant overheard him. “What is that you say, my
   friend?” The poor man was confused, and begged to be excused,
   as he did not intend to say anything. But the kind-hearted
   merchant wouldn’t excuse him, and so the man had to repeat what
   he had said. “Well,” said the merchant, “how much would it take
   to make you happy?” “Oh, I don’t know, sir,” said he, “but the
   weather is very cold, and I have no fuel; my wife and children
   are thinly clad, sir, for I have been sick. But we don’t want
   much. I think, sir, about fifteen dollars would get us all we
   need.” “John,” said the merchant to his clerk, “count this man
   out fifteen dollars.” The poor man’s heart was made glad, and
   when he got home, his family were made happy. At the close of
   the day, the clerk asked his employer how he should enter on
   his books the money given. He answered: “Say, ‘For making a man
   happy, fifteen dollars.’” Perhaps that was the happiest fifteen
   dollars the merchant himself had ever spent. (Text.)

    (1347)


                         HAPPINESS, RULES FOR

   Mrs. Alice Freeman Palmer was once talking to a girls’ club,
   composed of the unkempt and unprivileged daughters of Eve, and
   gave them three rules for happiness in the promise that they
   would keep the rules every day for a week. The rules were, for
   each day:

   First--Commit to memory a worthy sentence.

   Second--Do something for others.

   Third--See something beautiful.

   She met a while after one little girl who declared that she
   had fulfilled her promise every day; but that one day, when
   mother was sick, she could not go to the park to see something
   beautiful, and thought she had lost it, but while doing
   something for others, in the way of caring for the baby, she
   looked out of the attic window of her squalid home, and saw
   a common sparrow, and as she looked at the little fellow,
   the dark feathers around his throat appearing to her like a
   smart necktie, she found her vision of the beautiful in what
   many would consider the most ordinary of all God’s feathered
   songsters. Oh, but she arrived! arrived in spite of the
   commonplace which seemed to fetter her, and sunshine came of a
   dreary day into a dreary room, because of the purpose of her
   soul.--NEHEMIAH BOYNTON.

    (1348)


                           HARDNESS OF HEART

The souls of men are not like the “constant” quantities of the
mathematician. Divine love softens the hardest human hearts.

   A mass of ironstone, dark and adamantine, flies through space
   and suddenly impinges on our atmosphere. There is a flash in
   the air and men gaze on the apparition of the blazing meteor.
   They have seen an aerolite. The soft, invisible, impalpable
   atmosphere receives the hard, ferruginous aerolite and at once
   melts it. (Text.)

    (1349)


                         HARDSHIP, MISSIONARY

Egerton Young gives below an experience as missionary to the Indians of
British Columbia. He shows the spirit of Him who shared the sorrows of
man to save the world:

   I have seen Indians eighty years of age who never saw a loaf of
   bread, or a cake, or a pie. When my wife and I went out there we
   lived as they did; we lived on fish twenty-one times a week for
   months together, and for weeks together we did not average two
   good meals a day. For years we did not begin to live as well as
   the thieves and murderers in the penitentiaries of Great Britain
   and America. But it was a blest work, and we were happy in it.
   (Text.)

    (1350)


   =Hardship Overcome=--See COLLEGE OR EXPERIENCE.


                      HARDSHIP VICARIOUSLY BORNE

   More than eighty years ago a fierce war raged in India between
   the English and Tipu Sahib. On one occasion several English
   officers were taken prisoners. Among them was one named Baird.
   One day the native officer brought in fetters to be put upon
   each of the prisoners, the wounded not excepted. Baird had been
   severely wounded and was suffering from pain and weakness.

   A gray-haired officer said to the native official, “You do not
   think of putting chains upon that wounded man?”

   “There are just as many pairs of fetters as there are
   prisoners,” was the answer, “and every pair must be worn.”

   “Then,” said the noble officer, “put two pairs on me. I will
   wear his as well as my own.” This was done. Strange to say.
   Baird lived to regain his freedom, and lived to take that city;
   but his noble, unselfish friend died in prison.

   Up to his death, he wore two pairs of fetters. But what if he
   had worn the fetters of all the prisoners? What if, instead
   of being a captive himself, he had quitted a glorious palace,
   to live in their loathsome dungeon, to wear their chains, to
   bear their stripes, to suffer and die for them, that they
   might go free, and free forever? (Text.)--SOPHIE BRONSON
   TITTERINGTON.

    (1351)


   =Harmony=--See RAPPORT.


                         HARMONY IS GOD’S WORK

In “Famous Stories of Sam P. Jones” may be found this bit of wisdom:

   A well-trained musician sits down to a piano and sweeps his
   fingers over the keys. A cloud gathers on his face as he
   recognizes a discord in the instrument. What is the matter?
   Three of the keys are out of harmony. These three keys that
   are out of harmony are out of harmony with everything in the
   universe that is in harmony. I say to that musician, “Close up
   that piano and let it alone until it puts itself in harmony.”
   He replies, “It is impossible for the piano to put itself in
   harmony.” “Who can put it in harmony?” I ask. He replies, “The
   man who made the instrument. The instrument is put into the
   hands of the man who made it, and in a few hours every key on
   the piano is in harmony, and the piano being in harmony with
   itself is in harmony with everything else in the universe.”

God alone can put discordant souls into harmony.

    (1352)


                           HARMONY, ULTIMATE

   The dome of the Baptistry at Pisa has this wonderful quality,
   that it is so fashioned that no matter how discordant the sounds
   received may be they are returned softened and harmonized.

So shall it yet be with the discords of earth in the new heaven when
all shall have been baptized into the same spirit.

    (1353)


                   HARP, THE, AS A SACRED INSTRUMENT

   The harp is by common consent supposed to be the musical
   instrument of the angels, and many a clerical metaphor has
   been made regarding “the celestial harps,” “the golden harps,”
   etc. The metaphor is probably taken by very few as a fixt
   truth, but is nevertheless to the musician an interesting and
   also a reverential one. At the time that the Scriptures were
   written the harp was the finest instrument possest by man, and
   in ascribing it to the angels an effort was made to represent
   the music of heaven by the noblest tones of earth. Were we to
   imagine celestial music to-day it would be the roll of heavenly
   orchestras, and some of the old Italian painters scarcely made a
   musical error in depicting their angels as playing on violins.
   The violin is the noblest earthly instrument, and is far beyond
   the harp in its representation of bliss. Meanwhile, Schumann and
   Berlioz (in Faust) have used the harp to picture celestial joys,
   while Wagner has used the violins in a soft tremolo in highest
   positions, combined in sweet tones of wood wind. Nevertheless,
   association of ideas is much in music, and the harp must always
   call up the idea of heaven in the minds of many. (Text.)--Boston
   _Musical Herald_.

    (1354)


                         HARSHNESS, FAILURE OF

   What harshness in fathers, who fear to praise their children!
   What severity in some teachers! What bitterness in our
   muck-rakers and reformers! How seldom do we find a man who can
   speak the truth, and speak it in love. Yet there are some things
   that harshness can not do. In February the clods are hard,
   the seeds dead, the roots inert, the boughs leafless. Now let
   nature speak in terms of power. She lets loose the north wind,
   to smite the branches; she beats the bare clods with hail and
   snow. In a tempest of fury she commands the earth to awaken.
   But power is impotent; not a root stirs, not a seed moves.
   Then, when the storms and winds have published their weakness,
   the south wind comes softly wooing. Summer speaks in love. The
   mother heart caresses each sleeping seed, and wakens it with
   bosom pressure. And every root and bough answers with beauty and
   radiant loveliness. Amid this is the parable of influence, that
   rebukes man’s harshness, and smites those who turn justice into
   cruelty and cause their good to be evil spoken of.--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (1355)


   =Harvest=--See FERTILITY.


   =Harvest Failures=--See CHOKED.


                       HARVEST FROM EARLY SOWING

   A little girl had been promised a handsome Bible for her
   birthday. On hearing a missionary tell of the need of Bibles in
   India, the child asked if she might not have two Bibles, each
   half as handsome as the one her mother was planning to give her.
   Her mother consented and the little girl wrote her name in one
   of them and gave it to the missionary to send to India. Years
   afterward a lady missionary was telling the story of the love of
   Jesus to a few women, when one of them exclaimed: “Oh, I know
   all about that. I have a book which tells me these things.” She
   brought the book to the missionary, who, on opening it, saw
   with astonishment her own name on the fly-leaf! It was the very
   birthday Bible she had sent out years before as a little girl
   and it had led to the conversion of its reader. (Text.)

    (1356)


   =Harvest-raising=--See COOPERATION WITH GOD.


   =Haste=--See PAINSTAKING.


                      HASTE WITHOUT SELF-CONTROL

   Emerson, in his acute observations on manners, declares that
   there is nothing “so inelegant as haste,” meaning by this the
   haste which is a hurry. Haste which the occasion demands is
   never undignified. A fireman running to a fire is a rather
   inspiriting sight. We would despise him if he walked. It
   is rushing in the ordinary affairs of life, which demand
   deliberation, steadiness, control, that destroys dignity and so
   destroys good manners. The man in a hurry, we feel at once, is
   so because he is not master of the situation. He would not be
   compelled to gorge his breakfast, to walk so fast that he looks
   like an animated wagon-wheel, or to slight his work, if he had
   his affairs in control.--_Chautauquan._

   (1357)


   =Hasty Action=--See RETALIATION.


                          HAVOC THAT SPREADS

Vernon L. Kellogg points out how the evil of the great grasshopper
plague that visited some Western States about forty years ago, entailed
disaster on the whole country:

   Over thousands and thousands of square miles of the great
   granary of the land were spread the hordes of hoppers. Farmers
   and stockmen were being ruined. Then the storekeepers and
   bankers that sell things and lend money to the farmers. Then the
   lawyers and doctors that depend on the farmers’ troubles to earn
   a living. Then the millers and stock-brokers and capitalists of
   the great cities that make their fortunes out of handling and
   buying and selling the grains the farmers send in long trains
   to the centers of population. Everybody, the whole country, was
   aghast and appalled at the havoc of the hopper. (Text.)--“Insect
   Stories.”

    (1358)


   =Head-hunters=--See BARBARISM.


   =Headlight Requirements=--See ILLUMINATION.


                             HEADS, LOSING

   I was preaching for a single Sabbath in Brooklyn. In the course
   of my discourse I lost my head; in fact, I lost all of them.
   Three were on paper, and one on my shoulders; and they all went
   at once.

   I tried to remember what I had had in my head, but, like the old
   king’s dream, the matter had gone from me.

   I tried to decipher what I had put upon paper, but the writing
   had faded out.

   Everything was gone except the audience, and I could have wished
   that they were gone, too.

   I pounded the desk; I pawed the floor; I clawed the air.
   I poured whole broadsides of big dictionary into those
   long-suffering people, but without a single scintilla of sense.

   At last I struck a line of thought, and clutched it with the
   grip of despair, and pulled myself out of the hole in which
   I had been floundering, and then limped along to a “lame
   conclusion.”

   And then so mortified was I that I would have sunk through the
   floor, could I have found a vacant nail-hole. As that was out of
   the question, I would fain have sneaked away without speaking to
   a human being; but, as bad luck would have it, I had promised to
   go home to dinner with the Hon. William Richardson, one of the
   most cultured members of the congregation.

   We walked some distance before either spoke a word. Finally, I
   broke silence--I felt like breaking everything in sight--and I
   said, “Richardson, was not that the very worst you ever heard?”

   “What do you mean?” he asked.

   “Mean?” I replied, catching savagely at the word. “‘Mean’ is no
   name for it. You must have noticed how under the third head
   of my discourse I lost my head, and ripped and raved and tore
   around like a lunatic. What did the people think of it?”

   “Think of it? Think of it?” he repeated with sincere surprize.
   “Why, they thought it was the best part of the whole sermon.”

   And then I said to myself, and I said to him, “What is the use
   of talking sense to the people when they like the other so
   much better?” Possibly this may serve to account for the fact
   that these same people subsequently called me to become their
   pastor.--P. S. HENSON, _Christian Endeavor World_.

    (1359)


   =Headstrong=--See WILFULNESS.


                               HEAD-WORK

   “He puzzled me at first,” said a physician who had engaged a
   young college student to take some care of his office. “He put
   actual head-work into his sweeping and dusting, and he showed
   remarkable carefulness and dexterity in handling articles, never
   disarranging or misplacing them. I found that he is studying
   music as well as Latin, and aims to be a pianist one of these
   days. Do you see, he simply applied the skill he had attained in
   a finer art to the rougher work he did for me? It speaks well
   for his future that he did it.”

   This ennobling and harmonizing of the coarser task by means of
   the skill acquired at a finer one, marks the difference between
   cheap work and expert work. The careless man never sees the
   connection between two varieties of labor, but the man who does
   not mean to waste the least of his talents puts his whole mind,
   all his manual skill, into whatever necessary task is set before
   him. And this application of skill to diverse ends heightens in
   itself that very force of skill, so that the man who uses the
   best he has for each new need becomes a stronger and more able
   man. (Text.)--_Young People._

    (1360)


   =Head-work Unremunerative=--See ILL-PAID WORK.


   =Healing=--See CHRIST, A THERAPEUTIC.


   =Healing Spells=--See REMEDIES, STRANGE.


   =Healing, The Gift of=--See GOD SENDS GIFTS.


                            HEALING WATERS

   Traversing Thrace is a wonderful river flowing west and south
   toward the Egean Sea, named the Tearus. It is said to come from
   thirty-eight springs, all issuing from the same rock, some hot
   and some cold. The waters so mingling are pure, limpid and
   delicious, and are possest of remarkable medicinal properties,
   being efficacious for the cure of various diseases. Darius was
   so much pleased with this river that his army halted on its
   march to refresh itself with its waters. And a monument was
   erected at the spot as a memorial of the march, and also as a
   tribute to the salubrity of the waters of this magical stream.
   (Text.)

    (1361)


                          HEALTH AND SCIENCE

If duties are to be measured by what things cost and the havoc they
work, then diseases like consumption and typhoid fever should certainly
find more people who would be willing to devote more of their time,
energy and means to eradicate at least some of the conditions presented
in the following statement:

   Every day in the year there are two million people seriously
   sick in the United States. Some of this can never be
   prevented, but it is conservatively estimated that our annual
   loss from preventable diseases alone is $2,000,000,000 per
   year. Consumption alone formerly cost the United States over
   $1,000,000,000 a year. Since the discovery of the germ by Dr.
   Koch and of the improved methods of prevention and cure it has
   been shown that where this knowledge is applied seventy-five
   per cent of the loss from consumption can be prevented.
   Typhoid fever costs the country $350,000,000 a year. The city
   of Pittsburg alone has, by careful investigation, been shown
   to have lost $3,142,000 from typhoid fever in one year. The
   discovery that typhoid is produced by a special germ, which is
   usually gotten from the water or milk supply or from flies, has
   made it possible to control this expensive disease. As soon as
   all our citizens have good sanitary training, this $350,000,000
   expense for typhoid can be completely eliminated. It has been
   shown that in the numerous cities in which the water supply
   alone has been made sanitary, typhoid has been reduced on the
   average seventy-one per cent.--New York, _Evening Post_.

    (1362)


   =Health by Singing=--See SINGING CONDUCIVE TO HEALTH.


                            HEALTH, CARE OF

   Spare diet and constant exercise in the keen morning air helped
   to endow Wesley with that amazing physical toughness which
   enabled him, when eighty-five years old, to walk six miles to a
   preaching appointment, and declare that the only sign of old age
   he felt was that “he could not walk nor run quite so fast as he
   once did.”--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (1363)


                         HEALTH, ECONOMICS OF

Samuel Hopkins Adams writes of the economic value of pure food as
follows:

   Sterilization was tried in Rochester. It did not work well. The
   milk was not nutritious. Then Dr. Goler hit upon what seems to
   me the centrally important truth in the milk problem; that not
   the milk itself, but everything with which it comes in contact,
   should be made germ-proof. And as the basis upon which it all
   rests, stands the vital lesson of hygienic economics which this
   country is learning with appreciably growing enlightenment; that
   bad air, bad water, bad housing, bad sewering, dirty streets,
   and poor or impure food of whatever sort, cheaper tho they may
   be in the immediate expense, come back upon a community or a
   nation, in the long run, with a bill of arrears upon which
   the not-to-be-avoided percentage is appallingly exorbitant.
   (Text.)--_McClure’s Magazine._

    (1364)


   =Health in Large Cities=--See IMPROVED CONDITIONS.


                   HEALTH, REGAINING AND MAINTAINING

   That is a remarkable record Colonel Roosevelt made in going
   through equatorial Africa for so many months in the jungle and
   in the swamp and yet never suffering any kind of ill-health for
   an hour of the whole time.

   It would be a remarkable record for any white man, and is
   particularly so in the case of Mr. Roosevelt. As a youngster it
   was a question in his own family whether he would ever arrive at
   maturity. He was a sickly child.

   The family, instead of coddling the youth, sent him out to the
   plains in the great Northwest to rough it on a cattle ranch.
   There he lived on plain fare, in poorly constructed houses, and
   rode a bronco from sunrise until dark, often before the sun rose
   and often after darkness set in. He returned to the house tired
   and slept soundly until the morning call came again. This was
   just what made the robust man of Mr. Roosevelt that he is.

   Plain fare, plenty of outdoor life, with exercise, is the
   natural condition for man to pass his life in. Civilization,
   unless guarded against, levies a terrible tax upon human life.
   Fine houses, too comfortable clothing, a table too liberally
   supplied, make direct attacks upon man’s physical health. Late
   hours, irregular hours, overpacked rooms, with their fetid
   atmosphere, levy a still heavier tax.

    (1365)


   =Hearers=--See SYMPATHY, LACK OF.


                       HEART-HUNGER, SATISFYING

   The successful treatment of tuberculosis is psychic, as well as
   physiologic. So, too, must the treatment of juvenile delinquency
   be considered. The physician impresses the patient with faith
   in his recovery. So, too, must the teacher impress the child.
   She must have faith in him, a faith so wholesome that he will
   learn to have faith in himself. She must encourage so that her
   encouragement will spur the weakest to effort. Oh, the effect of
   a tender word on a parched and starving little heart! Cases of
   individual rescues effected by a kind word crowd upon me.

   Dominick, the little Italian, the terror of three successive
   schools, who to-day is not only a fine lad, but who has reformed
   several other boys, changed from a lawless, defiant misdemeanant
   to the pride of the class--how? By a teacher who said to him, “I
   think you are trying to-day, dear.” Poor little chap! He told
   his teacher frankly that it was her calling him “dear” which
   developed in him a determination to please her.

   The insolent, defiant Irish boy, driven from room to room,
   who to-day is working steadily--respectful, law-abiding,
   ambitious--what worked his reform? A teacher, who in reply to
   the principal’s question, “Well, how is Tom doing in here?”
   looked at the class in line and noticing that Tom was standing
   up straight, said: “Oh, he’s going to be all right. He’s the
   best stander in the class.” And Tom, poor Tom, the first time
   he had ever been the best anything, took heart, and worked for
   further commendation.

   Ikey, the little Russian boy, in rags which almost fell from his
   poor, thin, little legs, what changed him from an ugly little
   outcast to a boy who tried, really tried, to do what was right?
   A clean suit of clothes, a warm bath, and a daily glass of milk,
   given by a teacher who sensed the boy’s needs.

   Have you read Owen Kildare’s account of the effect upon him of
   the first gentle touch he had ever felt?

   Seldom in his life as a child had any one said a kind word to
   him. One day when a strange woman patted him on the cheek he
   almost cried with the joy of it.

   “With a light pat on my cheek and one of the sunniest smiles
   ever shed on me.” he says of the incident, “she put a penny
   in my hand. She was gone before I realized what had happened.
   Somehow, I felt that were she to come back I could have said
   to her, ‘Say, lady, I haven’t got much to give, but I’ll give
   you all me poipers, me pennies, and me knife if you’ll do that
   agen.’”

   Go back to your schools. Pick out the so-called worst boys. Find
   out whether heart-hunger as well as stomach-hunger may not be
   one of the symptoms of the disease. There is not a teacher in
   all our broad land who would knowingly let a child’s body starve
   to death for want of physical food. Why should any child’s heart
   or soul be allowed to starve to death for want of a little
   sympathy and affection? Bodily starvation, at its worst, can
   only end in death; soul starvation, at its worst, ends in a
   hateful, ugly, defiant, lawless attitude toward authority, which
   not only ruins the starved one but brings disaster to the social
   order. Does not some blame belong to the school if its teachers
   fail to feed these starving souls?--JULIA RICHMAN,
   “Proceedings of the National Education Association,” 1909.

    (1366)


                            HEART-INTEREST

   When the old lady was training her son for the trapeze, the
   boy made three or four rather ineffectual efforts to get over
   the bar. Then she was heard to suggest: “John Henry Hobbs, if
   you will just throw your heart over the bars, your body will
   follow.” (Text.)--JAMES G. BLAINE.

    (1367)


                        HEART, REGENERATION OF

   A fable among the Turks says that Mohammed, when a child, had
   his heart laid open, and a black grain, called the devil’s
   portion, taken out of its center; and in this heroic way the
   prophet’s preeminent virtue and sanctity are accounted for.

A new heart entire, through the regeneration of the Holy Ghost, far
surpasses the Moslem’s fabled operation.

    (1368)


   =Heart, Summer in the=--See SUMMER IN THE HEART.


                              HEART, THE

   The word “heart” is used figuratively and metaphysically, but
   with vivid impressiveness in Scripture, to indicate the capacity
   of feeling after God without which faith is impossible. Men
   of mathematical and philosophic training have in many cases
   lamentably exemplified the atrophy of the finer feelings. Here
   is the great fault in the glittering and brilliant writings of
   John Stuart Mill. From early infancy he, a most precocious boy,
   was taught to crush the heart, to repress all sentiments of
   affection. The moral nature of the lad was shockingly distorted,
   and as he grew up he judged of everything by the cold light of
   intellect only. He wrote his autobiography, and in that book is
   not a word about his mother. So the book absolutely lacks heart,
   and it is devoid of all fascination. (Text.)

    (1369)


                           HEART, THE HUMAN

   An American naturalist tells us that the human brain is full of
   birds. The song-birds might all have been hatched in the human
   heart, so well do they express the whole gamut of human passion
   and emotion in their varied songs. The plaintive singers, the
   soaring ecstatic singers, the gushing singers, the inarticulate
   singers--robin, dove, lark, mocking-bird, nightingale--all are
   expressive of human emotion, desire, love, sadness, aspiration,
   glee. Christ gives a sadder view of our heart, showing it to be
   “the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean and
   hateful bird.” Fierce hawk, croaking raven, ravenous vulture,
   obscene birds, birds of discord, birds of darkness, birds of
   tempest, birds of blood and death--these are all typical of the
   heart’s base passions; these all brood and nestle within, and
   fly forth to darken, pollute, and destroy. And the Master is not
   here speaking of some hearts, but of the human heart generally.
   In the woods we find occasionally a bird with a false note, in
   the fields a misshapen flower, yet beauty and music are the
   prevailing characteristics of the landscape; but stepping into
   society, the universal discord and misery declare the common
   radical defect of our nature.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The
   Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (1370)


                          HEART, THE SINGING

Frank L. Stanton writes of the man who has a song in the heart thus:

    There is never a sky of winter
      To the heart that sings alway;
    Never a night but hath stars to light,
      And dreams of a rosy day.

    The world is ever a garden
      Red with the bloom of May;
    And never a stormy morning
      To the heart that sings alway!

    (1371)


   =Heart versus Head=--See DEATH COMPELLING SINCERITY; EXPERIENCE
      THE BEST ARGUMENT.


   =Heartless Custom=--See BARBARISM.


                           HEARTLESS PAGANS

There is an essential difference between the attitude of heathenism and
of Christianity toward human suffering. Sir Frederick Lely said:

   The ordinary native of India who has been untouched by the Light
   is utterly devoid of pity. In West India a man will be taxed for
   killing a dog, but not for killing a man. During famine times it
   is an every-day sight to see men feeding monkeys with unleavened
   cakes and refusing to give a crust to their fellow men who are
   lying within a few yards of them dying with hunger. The great
   merchants and moneyed men of India spent thousands upon food
   for decrepid and worthless animals, but left it to the British
   Government to feed the men and women. In a famine hospital, Sir
   Frederick saw a little lad whose flesh was torn in many places.
   That morning an agent of one of the merchant gilds had visited
   his village with a supply of food for the village pariah dogs.
   The poor boy asked for some for himself but was refused, and in
   desperation he ran in among the dogs to try and get a piece, and
   they turned upon him and bit him. A Bunnia Hindu, in Ankleshwer,
   has recently given 15,000 rupees to found an animal hospital.
   The enclosure is to be in the midst of the town--a commodious
   structure, where worn-out cattle and worthless animals will be
   brought as a matter of religion. Around the outside of these
   same walls will walk crippled, diseased, poor and hungry men and
   women and children, but their pleading voices will fall on deaf
   ears.

    (1372)


   =Heat=--See ENTHUSIASM.


   =Heathen at Home and Abroad=--See MISSIONS APPROVED.


                         HEATHEN RECEPTIVENESS

The heathen seldom express a longing for the gospel as clearly as in
the following petition to the missionaries of the Swedish Missionary
Society in the Kongo State from a number of black heathen chiefs in
1887. They said:

   We, Makayi, Nsinki, Kibundu, and Mukayi Makuta Ntoko, chiefs in
   Kibunzi, and our people, desire that the missionaries of the
   Swedish Missionary Society come and make their home with us, and
   teach us and our people. We gladly give them the right to erect
   their buildings upon the high hill southeast from the village
   of Kibunzi in any convenient spot. We transfer to them all our
   claims to that hill. Of course, they have the right to use the
   forests, the rivers, the roads, and the fields for plantations
   within our boundaries in the same manner as ourselves. We have
   invited them to come, and we are glad to see them with us, and
   our one desire is that they remain with us and erect buildings.

    (1373)


                              HEATHENDOM

   An experience of my own in connection with the Kiang-peh famine
   in China illustrates the situation on most mission fields
   to-day. Tarrying in Chinkiang for a few days before proceeding
   up the canal, I saw considerable of the refugee camp outside
   the city wall. Altho one of the smaller camps, this one held
   perhaps forty thousand refugees from up country, all living on
   the bare and frozen ground, and the most comfortable of them
   having only an improvised hut of straw matting to shelter them.
   The tide of relief had not yet begun to flow from America and
   Europe. Moved by compassion for the suffering ones, Mrs. John
   W. Paxton made daily rounds to administer what medical relief
   was possible. One day I accompanied her, and she translated
   the words of the people. The commonest complaint we heard that
   morning from these starving Chinese was that they had lost their
   appetites! On their faces was the unmistakable famine pallor;
   hunger had driven them hither from their homes--yet they had
   no taste for food! The tragedy of it was overwhelming. They
   had no appetite, because they had reached the last stages of
   starvation, and were dying. They did not want food, for the very
   reason that they needed it so badly. Heathendom does not want
   the gospel, because it needs it. Starving for the bread of life,
   it yet protests no desire for this supreme boon. Heathendom
   does not desire Christianity for the very reason that it is
   heathendom.--WILLIAM T. ELLIS, “Men and Missions.”

    (1374)


   =Heathenism Shattered=--See MIRACLES, EVIDENTIAL VALUE OF.


                                HEAVEN

   A schoolboy had a blind father; the boy was very keen on games,
   and his father was in the habit of being present at all the
   school cricket matches, altho he had to look on at the prowess
   of his son through other eyes. Then the father died. The day
   after the funeral there was an important cricket match on, and,
   to the surprize of his fellows, the lad exprest a strong wish
   to play. He played, and played well, making a fine score, and
   carrying out his bat. His friends gathered round him in the
   pavilion, shaking him by the hand and patting him on the back.

   “Did I do well?” he asked.

   “Well!” was the reply, “you did splendidly; never better.”

   “I am so glad,” the boy said; “it is the first time he ever saw
   me bat.”

   For him, heaven was the place which gave his blind father sight.

    (1375)

       *       *       *       *       *

Elizabeth Stuart Phelps points out the fact that each one’s idea of
heaven is some place or state where our most earnest longings and
desires are met and fulfilled:

   “If I could be out of physical pain,” said a lifelong invalid,
   “I would ask no other heaven.” “If I could be in a place where I
   might know that my husband never could be killed on the train!”
   cried one of the gentle worriers, whose capacity for suffering
   is neither understood nor respected by the sanguine. “If I could
   take my children to a world where every time I hear a croupy
   cough my heart did not stand still with terror,” urged another,
   “that would be heaven for me.” The mulatto girl who burst
   into joyful tears at first sight of a marble bust of herself,
   “because it was white,” caught a glimpse of her heaven before
   its time.

   “Heaven must be like any other form of happiness, only ‘more
   so,’” said a thoughtful man. “And the conditions of happiness
   are three--a clear conscience, something to do, and some one to
   love.”

    (1376)

   See COUNTRY, A NEW; LIGHT IMMORTAL.


                        HEAVEN, CONCEPTIONS OF

    Life changes all our thoughts of heaven;
    At first we think of streets of gold,
    Of gates of pearl and dazzling light,
    Of shining wings and robes of white,
    And things all strange to mortal sight.
    But in the afterward of years
    It is a more familiar place--
    A home unhurt by sighs or tears,
    Where waiteth many a well-known face.
    With passing months it comes more near.
    It grows more real day by day;
    Not strange or cold, but very dear--
    The glad homeland not far away,
    Where none are sick, or poor, or lone,
    The place where we shall find our own.
    And as we think of all we knew,
    Who there have met to part no more,
    Our longing hearts desire home, too,
    With all the strife and trouble o’er.

    (1377)


   =Heaven, Disbelief in=--See ANSWER, A SOFT.


                          HEAVEN, FRIENDS IN

Rev. John White Chadwick, who has now joined “the choir invisible,”
wrote of the friends who had gone before in this poem:

    It singeth low in every heart,
      We hear it, each and all--
    A song of those who answer not,
      However we may call;
    They throng the silence of the breast,
      We see them as of yore--
    The kind, the brave, the true, the sweet,
      Who walk with us no more.

    ’Tis hard to take the burden up
      When these have laid it down;
    They brightened all the joy of life,
      They softened every frown;
    But, O, ’tis good to think of them
      When we are troubled sore!
    Thanks be to God that such have been,
      Tho they are here no more.

    More homelike seems the vast unknown,
      Since they have entered there;
    To follow them were not so hard,
      Wherever they may fare;
    They can not be where God is not,
      On any sea or shore;
    Whate’er betides, Thy love abides,
      Our God, for evermore.

    (1378)


   =Heaven, Getting to=--See OBLIGATION TO THE CHURCH.


   =Heaven Open=--See LOOKING UP.


                            HEAVEN OUR HOME

   When King Khama came from Bechuanaland to England he was
   constantly asking “Where is Africa?” No matter how fascinating
   were the sights, his heart turned always homeward. So the
   Christian in the midst of all life’s distractions may remember
   that here he has no continuing city--heaven is his home. (Text.)

    (1379)


   =Heavenly Mail Facilities=--See CHILDREN’S RELIGIOUS IDEAS.


   =Heavenly Treasures=--See TREASURES LAID UP.


                           HEAVENLY VISITORS

   Observations of falling stars have been used to determine
   roughly the average number of meteorites which attempt to
   pierce the earth’s atmosphere during each twenty-four hours.
   Dr. Schmidt, of Athens, from observations made during seventeen
   years, found that the mean hourly number of luminous meteors
   visible on a clear, moonless night by one observer was fourteen,
   taking the time of observation from midnight to 1 A.M.
   It has been further experimentally shown that a large group
   of observers who might include the whole horizon in their
   observations would see about six times as many as are visible
   to one eye. Prof. H. A. Newton and others have calculated that,
   making all proper corrections, the number which might be visible
   over the whole earth would be a little greater than 10,000 times
   as many as could be seen at one place. From this we gather that
   not less than 20,000,000 luminous meteors fall upon our planet
   daily, each of which in a dark clear night would present us
   with the well-known phenomenon of a shooting-star. This number,
   however, by no means represents the total number of minute
   meteorites that enter our atmosphere, because many entirely
   invisible to the naked eye are often seen in telescopes. It
   has been calculated that the number of meteorites, if these
   were included, would be increased at least twentyfold; this
   would give us 400,000,000 of meteorites falling in the earth’s
   atmosphere daily.--J. NORMAN LOCKYER, _Harper’s
   Magazine_.

    (1380)


   =Heavens, The=--See PRIVILEGE.


   =Height=--See GIANTS AND DWARFS; UPWARD LOOK.


   =Height Abolishing Burdens=--See WEIGHT DIMINISHED BY ASCENT.


                                HEIGHTS

   The mind of Christ places and keeps us on the heights, lifting
   our consciousness from the seen to the unseen, and opening
   all our little restricted nature to the joyous rhythm of the
   universal life. What cowards we are when dominated by the
   seen. We dare not affirm anything beyond the reach of the eye,
   the sound of the ear, the touch of the finger-tips. But the
   beauties we see are only the reflection of the beauties that
   are, like Pluto’s artizans in the cave, catching only the
   reflected light from the realm above, the music we hear, the
   merest jingle of the melodies divine, the things we touch,
   the superficial, mechanical, material side of reality. Why
   can’t we believe that the unseen things which can be detected
   from the heights are those that are worth while, because the
   abiding, the eternal? Only on the heights can we dominate bodily
   conditions.--ROBERT MACDONALD.

    (1381)


   =Heights, In the=--See CONFIDENCE.


                          HEIGHTS, LIVING ON

   On the heights above the vega of Granada there rises the great
   palace of the Alhambra. In the lower stories there are the
   menial offices of domestic use. Above them are the living rooms,
   the guest chambers, the halls of the Moorish kings; and far
   above them all rises the great red tower into which the Moslem
   kings could ascend to look upward to the stars and downward on
   the valley, green with trees and beautiful with cities.

   So God has made our lives. The lower stories serving the
   needs of our material life, the higher ones of intellect and
   affection, where we live in the joys of thought and friendship;
   but high above them all rises the great watch-tower of the soul
   in which the noise and toils of earth are lost in the great
   stillness of the heights, and earth’s mysteries and sorrows
   are interpreted by the higher providence of God.--F. F.
   SHANNON.

    (1382)


                       HEIGHTS, PRESSING TOWARD

   The peaks of some mountains are always enveloped in morning
   mists. They shut down on the climber like a sky of lead beyond
   which neither rift in the clouds or ray of sunlight is visible.
   The expansive view is excluded and self is left, humanly
   speaking, alone in the gloom. But if he presses forward, keeping
   onward and upward, the light of the eastern sun will soon flood
   him with light.

   In the world we are often confused by the mountain mists. Then
   is the time to press forward, in the faith that we shall see the
   rays of the rising Son of righteousness dispel the clouds and
   light breaking forth. (Text.)

    (1383)


   =Heights, Striving for the=--See GAIN THROUGH LOSS.


   =Hell, Threatened=--See SINNERS AND GOD.


                         HELP FOR THE HELPLESS

   During the South African war a manager of a mine on the lonely
   veldt did his best to discover and help the wounded British
   soldiers in the neighborhood of his home. When night came on
   the manager had to give up his weary search. But he determined
   to let the soldiers know of the refuge which his house was
   ready to afford. So he sat down to his little piano and played
   incessantly, “God Save the Queen.” Through the night, while
   his fingers were numbed with the cold, he played the British
   national anthem, risking death at the hands of the enemies
   if they had heard him. And one by one the wounded soldiers
   struggled toward the friendly roof and lay down in the safe
   refuge of his home. It was a beautiful version of the Savior’s
   call to tired and tempted men and women: “Come unto me, and
   rest.” (Text.)

    (1384)


                           HELP ONE ANOTHER

    “Help one another,” the snowflakes said,
    As they settled down in their fleecy bed,
      “One of us here would never be felt,
      One of us here would quickly melt;
    But I’ll help you, and you help me,
    And then what a splendid drift there’ll be.”

    “Help one another,” the maple spray
    Said to its fellow leaves one day;
      “The sun would wither me here alone,
      Long enough ere the day is gone;
    But I’ll help you, and you help me,
    And then what a splendid shade there’ll be.”

    “Help one another,” the dew-drop cried,
    Seeing another drop close to its side;
      “The warm south wind would dry me away,
      And I should be gone ere noon to-day;
    But I’ll help you, and you help me,
    And we’ll make a brook and run to the sea.”

    “Help one another,” a grain of sand
    Said to another grain close at hand;
      “The wind may carry me over the sea,
      And then, oh, what will become of me?
    But, come, my brother, give me your hand,
    We’ll build a mountain and then we’ll stand.”

    And so the snowflakes grew to drifts;
      The grains of sand to a mountain;
    The leaves became a summer shade;
      The dew-drops fed a fountain.

    --_Source Unidentified._

    (1385)


                        HELP, TIMELY APPEAL FOR

   In the days of the United States Christian Commission, at a time
   when help was needed, a dinner was being served at Saratoga. Mr.
   George H. Stuart, of Philadelphia, a leader in the work, rose at
   table and announced, “I have news from Charleston!” Instantly
   all was silent. Then he added, “I have a dispatch from the
   commanding officer at Hilton Head, saying, ‘For God’s sake, send
   us ice for our wounded soldiers! Will the boarders at Saratoga
   respond?’” “We will! We will! We will!” rang out in chorus. Soon
   a purse of $3,200 was raised and forwarded to the seat of war.

Help can always be secured if we know the time and place and way of
asking.

    (1386)


                           HELP, UNEXPECTED

   Two men walking across a little park in Washington (says Ida
   N. Tarbell) saw Mr. Lincoln just ahead of them meet a crippled
   soldier who was in a towering rage, cursing the Government from
   the President down. Mr. Lincoln asked what was the matter.
   “Matter,” snapt the soldier; “I’m just out of a rebel prison.
   I’ve been discharged and I can’t get my money.” Mr. Lincoln
   asked for the soldier’s papers, saying that he had been a lawyer
   and perhaps could help him. The two gentlemen stept behind some
   shrubbery and waited. The President took the papers from the
   soldier, examined them, wrote a line on the back, and told him
   to carry them to the chief clerk at the War Department. After
   Mr. Lincoln had passed on, the gentlemen asked the soldier if
   he knew who had been talking to him. “Some ugly old fellow who
   pretends to be a lawyer,” was the answer. On looking at the
   note written on the back of the papers, the soldier discovered
   that he had been cursing “Abe” Lincoln to his face. He found
   a request to the chief clerk to examine the papers and, if
   correct, to see that the soldier was given his pay, signed A.
   Lincoln.

    (1387)


                           HELP UNRECOGNIZED

   A night of terror and danger, because of their ignorance, was
   spent by the crew of a vessel off the coast of New Jersey.

   Just before dark a bark was discovered drifting helplessly, and
   soon struck her bows so that she was made fast on a bar, and in
   momentary danger of going down.

   A line was shot over the rigging of the wreck by a life-saving
   crew, but the sailors did not understand that it was a line
   connecting them with the shore, that they might seize and
   escape. All signs failed to make them understand this. So all
   night the bark lay with the big waves dashing over it, while the
   crew, drenched and shivering and terrified, shouted for help.

   In the morning they discovered how unnecessarily they had
   suffered, and how all night there was a line right within
   reach by which they might have been saved.--_Evangelical
   Messenger._

    (1388)


   =Helpers, Humble=--See SUPPLIES, BRINGING UP.


                            HELPERS, UNSEEN

   Wireless ships suggest the value of our unseen helpers. Life
   is a sea, and men are mariners. As long as the sea is smooth
   we do not give much thought to our helpers in the unseen. But
   smooth sea, rough sea, or no sea, the helpers are there, waiting
   to be called. And behind them all stands the eternal Christ,
   dispatching his cosmic soldiers, even as the Roman centurion
   commanded his legions.--F. F. SHANNON.

    (1389)


                              HELPFULNESS

Susan Coolidge puts into verse some suggestive questions upon
opportunities to be helpful:

    If you were toiling up a weary hill,
      Bearing a load beyond your strength to bear,
    Straining each nerve untiringly and still
      Stumbling and losing foothold here and there,
    And each one passing by would do so much
      As give one upward lift and go his way,
    Would not the slight reiterated touch
      Of help and kindness lighten all the day?

    If you were breasting a keen wind which tost
      And buffeted and chilled you as you strove,
    Till baffled and bewildered quite, you lost
      The power to see the way, and aim and move,
    And one, if only for a moment’s space,
      Gave you a shelter from the bitter blast,
    Would you not find it easier to face
      The storm again when the brief rest was past?

    (1390)

       *       *       *       *       *

    If I can live
    To make some pale face brighter, and to give
      A second luster to some tear-dimmed eye,
    Or e’en impart
    One throb of comfort to an aching heart,
      Or cheer some wayworn soul in passing by;

    If I can lend
    A strong hand to the fallen, or defend
      The right against a single envious strain,
    My life, tho bare
    Perhaps of much that seemeth dear and fair
      To us of earth, will not have been in vain.

    The purest joy,
    Most near to heaven, far from earth’s alloy,
      Is bidding cloud give way to sun and shine;
    And ’twill be well
    If on that day of days the angels tell
      Of me, “She did her best for one of Thine.” (Text.)

    (1391)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The Koran tells of an angel who was sent from heaven to earth
   to do two things. One was to save King Solomon from doing some
   wrong thing to which he was inclined; and the other was to help
   a tiny yellow ant carry its load. (Text.)

    (1392)

   See INDIVIDUAL INFLUENCE; LABOR, OPPORTUNITY FOR.


                        HELPFULNESS AMONG BIRDS

   Mr. John Lewis Childs tells in the _Auk_ an instance of a
   shrike he shot in Florida. The bird flew and tried to alight
   in a tree, but was unable to do so and fell to the ground. As
   Mr. Childs approached to capture him, the bird struggled up and
   fluttered away with difficulty, uttering a cry of distress.
   Immediately another of his kind darted out of a tree, flew to
   his wounded companion, and circled about him and underneath him,
   buoying him up as he was about to sink to the ground. These
   tactics were repeated continually, the birds rising higher and
   flying farther away till they had gone nearly out of sight and
   safely lodged in the top of a tall pine-tree.--OLIVE THORNE
   MILLER, “The Bird Our Brother.”

    (1393)


   =Helpfulness as Testimony=--See WITNESS OF SERVICE.


                       HELPFULNESS, HAPPINESS IN

   “Guess who was the happiest child I saw to-day,” said father,
   taking his two little boys on his knees.

   “Well,” said Jim slowly, “it was a very rich little boy, with
   lots and lots of sweets and cakes.” “No,” said father. “He
   wasn’t rich; he had no sweets and no cakes. What do you guess,
   Joe?” “He was a pretty big boy,” said Joe, “and he was riding a
   big, high bicycle.” “No,” said father. “He wasn’t big, and he
   wasn’t riding a bicycle. You have lost your guesses, so I’ll
   have to tell you. There was a flock of sheep crossing the city
   to-day; and they must have come a long way, so dusty and tired
   and thirsty were they. The drover took them up, bleating and
   lolling out their tongues, to a great pump, to water them. But
   one poor old ewe was too tired to get to the trough, and fell
   down on the hot, dusty stones. Then I saw my little man, ragged
   and dirty and tousled, spring out from the crowd of urchins who
   were watching the drove, fill his hat and carry it--one, two
   three--oh, as many as six times! to the poor, suffering animal,
   until the creature was able to get up and go on with the rest.”

   “Did the sheep say, ‘Thank you,’ father?” asked Jim gravely. “I
   didn’t hear it,” answered father. “But the little boy’s face was
   shining like the sun, and I’m sure he knows what a blest thing
   it is to help what needs helping.”

    (1394)


                           HELPS THAT HINDER

   Richard I, third Duke of Normandy, became involved in long
   and arduous wars with the King of France, which compelled him
   to call in the aid of more Northmen from the Baltic. His new
   allies, in the end, gave him as much trouble as the old enemy,
   with whom they came to help William I, his predecessor, contend;
   and he found it very hard to get them away. He wanted at length
   to make peace with the French king, and to have them leave his
   dominions; but they said: “That was not what we came for.”

There are helps that become hindrances, and aids that are embarrassing
in the end.

    (1395)


   =Hereafter and Here=--See EXCLUSION FROM HEAVEN.


                               HEREDITY

   With regard to the inheritance of handwriting there can be no
   doubt. Instances of close resemblances between the writings
   of the members of one and the same family will readily occur
   to every one. A particular slope in the writing or a mode of
   looping the letters, or of forming certain words may be passed
   on for several generations, especially when they originate from
   a man or woman of pronounced individuality. (Text.)--C.
   AINSWORTH MITCHELL, _Knowledge and Scientific News_.

    (1396)

   See TRANSMISSION.


                         HEREDITY, CONQUERING

   How many people are kept back because of an unfortunate family
   history! The son of the notorious bandit, Jesse James, some time
   ago carried off the highest honor, _summa cum laude_, in
   the Kansas City Law School. Judge Silas Porter, of the Supreme
   Court of Kansas, delivered the address on the occasion.

   For years young James has been the only support of his
   widowed mother. He has worked in a packing-house, attended a
   cigar-stand, and has done all sorts of things to secure an
   education and make his way in the world; and at last he has
   succeeded in overcoming the handicap of his fearful inheritance.

   His success ought to be a great encouragement to the unfortunate
   boys and girls whose fathers or mothers have disgraced them and
   placed them at cruel odds with the world.--_Success._

    (1397)


   =Heredity of Drink=--See DRINK, HERITAGE OF.


   =Heroes, Missionary=--See MISSIONS.


                                HEROISM

The newspapers tell us that the colored regiments continue to come in
for praises for their good work at Santiago, and they seem to have as
good a sense of humor as an Irishman:

   The Rough Riders were in a bad position on San Juan Hill at one
   time, and it is generally admitted that they could not have held
   their position but for the splendid charge of the Ninth Cavalry
   to their support. After the worst of the fighting was over a
   rough rider, finding himself near one of the colored troopers,
   walked up and grasped his hand, saying: “We’ve got you fellows
   to thank for getting us out of a bad hole.” “Dat’s all right,
   boss,” said the negro, with a broad grin. “Dat’s all right. It’s
   all in de fam’ly. We call ouahselves de colored rough riders!”
   (Text.)

    (1398)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In the long watch before Santiago the terror of our great
   battleships was the two Spanish torpedo-boat destroyers,
   those swift, fiendish sharks of the sea, engines of death and
   destruction, and yet, when the great battle came, it was the
   unprotected _Gloucester_, a converted yacht, the former
   plaything and pleasure-boat of a summer vacation, which, without
   hesitation or turning, attacked these demons of the sea and
   sunk them both. I have always thought it the most heroic and
   gallant individual instance of fighting daring in the war. It
   was as if some light-clad youth, with no defense but his sword,
   threw himself into the arena with armored gladiators and by his
   dash and spirit laid them low. And yet who has given a sword
   or spread a feast to that purest flame of chivalrous heroism,
   Richard Wainwright?--Hon. JOHN D. LONG.

    (1399)

       *       *       *       *       *

   William H. Edwards, a ‘longshoreman, twenty-five years old, who
   forgot race prejudice in his anxiety to be of service to his
   fellow men, was awarded a silver medal by the Carnegie Hero Fund
   Commission and also $1,000 to be applied to the purchase of a
   home.

   While the _Arcadia_, a freight steamer, plying between
   Hamburg and Philadelphia, was being unloaded in June, 1908, an
   explosion in the cargo occurred. Most of the stevedores working
   below decks were knocked down and bruised, some being burned.
   Many of the workers deserted the ship. Smoke and flames came
   from the hatches. Cries of the injured below decks came to the
   party of men waiting on deck.

   Edwards volunteered to attempt the rescue of the imprisoned men.
   Tying a rope to a lighter, he slid into the burning hold, but
   could find nothing. Hearing groans he deserted his guide-rope
   and bending low searched in the direction of the cries of pain.
   After a long search he located Lucius Hubbard, a negro. Bearing
   the unconscious and injured workman to the open hatch, he had
   him hoisted to the deck and safety, following himself when
   assured there was no other person in the burning vessel.

    (1400)

       *       *       *       *       *

The following dispatch from Mankato, Minn., is given by the Baltimore
_Sun_:

   With one foot cut off and his legs mangled, Rudolph Elmquist,
   an eighteen-year-old railroad operator, crawled a mile to his
   operating station and sounded a warning to Mankato, which saved
   probably one hundred lives.

   Elmquist tried Friday night to get on the evening freight-train
   caboose for Mankato, where he boarded. He slipt and fell beneath
   the wheels. The freight crew saw him fall and feared he had been
   hurt. The train stopt about a mile away and began to back up to
   investigate.

   The St. Paul passenger train was nearly due and the track was
   supposed to be clear for it. As one side of the curved track
   is along a high embankment and river, a disastrous crash was
   imminent.

   Elmquist saw the train backing up the track and tried, waving
   his arms, to stop it. Failing to find him in the night, the
   freight crew prepared to go forward again.

   Elmquist again tried to attract attention, but in vain. He then
   began dragging himself over the grass along the track to his
   station and reached his key about half an hour later, suffering
   torture.

   He wired the Great Western operator at Mankato: “My foot is cut
   off and No. 271 is coming back to pick me up. She will have to
   have help against No. 142, which is due at Mankato in a few
   minutes.”

   Then he fainted and fell across his desk. He was hurried to a
   hospital, where it was said both legs would have to be amputated.

    (1401)

   See GRATITUDE; LOST, CRY OF THE; RESCUE.


   =Heroism, Domestic=--See DOMESTIC HEROISM.


   =Heroism in Disaster=--See COMPENSATIONS OF PROVIDENCE.


                          HEROISM IN FICTION

   There is not a mine, not a railroad, not a steamship line, not a
   life-saving station in America or Europe, not a city in America
   or Europe, that has not illustrated in its history the capacity
   of human nature promptly to do and dare and die. And these deeds
   are done as modestly, as instinctively, as frequently as they
   were in the days of the Civil War when thousands on both sides
   faced each other in a battle whose issue, whether victory or
   defeat, put not a cent into any soldier’s pocket; when victory
   stood for no more booty or beauty than defeat. And since this is
   so; since our plain American common people are easily capable
   of heroic action and chivalric conduct, why do writers like
   Howells persist in picturing us a people whose average life and
   soul are represented by dudes and dolls, by selfish or silly men
   and women; by knaves with a vast retinue of fools and tools?
   The everyday heroism of the plain common people of America is
   a rebuke to Howells for his low figures, and a justification
   of the school of fiction that fills its pages with men and
   women that stand for noble aspirations and inspiration. The
   story of high endeavor is all that keeps the world’s eye on the
   stars.--Portland _Oregonian_.

    (1402)


   =Heroism, Missionary=--See MISSIONARY CALL.


                            HEROISM, MODEST

   Bicycle Policeman Ajax Whitman, the strong man of the
   department, did a stunt on the new Queensboro Bridge, New York,
   that those who saw will never forget, and the feat is vouched
   for by a large crowd who witnessed the bike cop’s job.

   Thomas Jones, of No. 102 Fourth Avenue, and Charles Schoener
   went over to the bridge to string lines of flags from the
   various towers. Both men are steeplejacks.

   Jones went up the north tower of the bridge and Schoener the
   south. The men used their little steeplejack seats and pulled
   themselves up. They had rigged their ropes and pulleys and were
   preparing to pass a line from one to the other to string the
   flags across to their respective towers when Schoener saw Jones
   suddenly go limp in his seat at the top of the tower flagpole,
   fall forward against it and hang there.

   “What’s wrong?” called Schoener.

   “I’m gradually going,” was all Jones could call back.

   Schoener slid down his flagpole as fast as he could, all the
   time calling for help.

   Down on the roadway below the towers Whitman was walking along
   with his wheel. He looked up when he heard Schoener yelling and
   then he spotted Jones, who sagged forward in his seat like a
   lifeless man. Whitman dropt the bicycle and ran to the little
   spiral stairway that leads from the roadway to the top of
   the tower. Meantime, a large crowd had been attracted by the
   flagman’s peril. All vehicles at work on the bridge were stopt
   and people were running in all directions trying to devise some
   means of being of use. Whitman suddenly came out at the top of
   the tower.

   Just as Whitman appeared in sight the seat in which Jones was
   sitting became loosened and as the seat started to go downward
   the decorator lost his balance and shot out of the seat head
   downward. Whitman braced himself against the foot of the
   flagpole and held out his arms. Jones’ limp body shot down and
   the big policeman acted as a net. The body fell just across
   Ajax’s big arms, and then both men went over in a heap as Jones’
   weight carried the policeman from his stand against the foot of
   the pole.

   Jones was unconscious and when the two men fell to the narrow
   flooring at the top of the tower he slipt from Whitman’s grasp
   and rolled toward the edge, over the river. Whitman made a
   desperate grab, got hold of Jones’ coat and held fast. Others
   below then regained their wits and ran up with Schoener and
   pulled the unconscious man back on the tower platform.

   As for Whitman, if it hadn’t been that everybody stopt work to
   watch the accident and so blocked the bridge no report would
   have been made, but Whitman had to account for the block of
   vehicles on the roadway and he did so by stating that “an
   accident to a decorator caused a ten minutes’ block of traffic
   on the Queensboro Bridge.”

    (1403)


                          HEROISM RECOGNIZED

   Pausing for a moment in its legislative activities, January,
   1909, the House of Representatives listened to a eulogy of
   John R. Binns, the Marconi operator aboard the steamship
   _Republic_, who remained at his post following her
   collision with the _Florida_.

   Binns sat in his darkened cabin on the _Republic_ as long
   as there was power to be had from the generators.

   Mr. Boutell, of Illinois, amid loud applause, said that
   throughout the whole critical period, “there was one silent
   actor in the tragedy whose name should be immortalized.” He
   specifically mentioned Binns by name, and in conclusion said:

   “Binns has given the world a splendid illustration of the
   heroism that dwells in many who are doing the quiet, unnoticed
   tasks of life. Is it not an inspiration for all of us to feel
   that there are heroes for every emergency and that in human life
   no danger is so great that some ‘Jack’ Binns is not ready to
   face it?”

    (1404)


                          HEROISM, VOLUNTARY

S. D. Gordon, in “The Sychar Revival,” gives an incident several times
paralleled in the histories of warfare:

   There is a simple story told about the time when the British
   were putting down a rebellion among the Ashanti tribes on the
   west coast of Africa. One morning the officer in command came to
   speak to the soldiers as they were drilling on the level stretch
   of land. He said, “Soldiers, I have a dangerous enterprise
   to-day. I need so many men. Every man that goes may lose his
   life. It is as serious as that. I am telling you frankly. I
   could draft you, but I don’t want to. I would like to ask for
   volunteers. I want those who will volunteer for Her Majesty’s
   sake to advance a pace.” They were drawn up in a straight line,
   and thinking the men might be influenced by his look he swung on
   his heel, and off, then back again and looked. The line stood as
   straight as before. His eye flashed fire. “What, not a single
   man to volunteer?” Then a fellow standing at the end of the line
   next to him saluted and said, modestly, “If you please, sir,
   every man has advanced one pace.”

    (1405)


                            HIDDEN DANGERS

   There is a little instrument used in war called a caltrop, named
   from a kind of thistle. It consists of a small bar of iron, with
   several sharp points projecting from it one or two inches each
   way. If these instruments are thrown upon the ground at random,
   one of the points must necessarily be upward, and the horses
   that tread upon them are lamed and disabled at once. History
   tells that Darius caused caltrops to be scattered in the grass
   and along the roads, wherever the army of Alexander would be
   likely to approach his troops on the field of battle.

    (1406)


   =Hidden, The, Exposed=--See DETECTION.


                             HIDDEN VALUES

   In an effort to locate a diamond ring valued at $450, which an
   elephant had swallowed while being fed peanuts, three expert
   X-ray operators and four elephant-trainers worked a whole day
   photographing by the X-ray process the entire interior of the
   elephant. In making the pictures, the largest X-ray machine ever
   made was used.

   There were made eighteen plates in all to get a complete diagram
   of the elephant’s interior. The ring was found in the beast’s
   stomach.--_The Electrician and Mechanic._

    (1407)


   =High Prices Responsible=--See DETECTION.


                           HIGHER CRITICISM

   What if Moses did not write the Pentateuch? What if it were
   written by another man named Moses? When a child is hungry, it
   is not interested in a dispute whether John Smith or James Smith
   planted the apple-tree. What it wants is the apple, because it
   is hungry. The patient has suffered a grievous accident, and the
   surgeon must operate. In that hour ether must be used, or the
   heart will not survive the agony. In such a critical moment, who
   cares whether Dr. Morton or Dr. Simpson discovered the saving
   remedy? It is ease from pain that the feeble heart demands. Your
   friend is in trouble in Europe, and you must send him a cable of
   relief. The English people claim that two Englishmen laid the
   Atlantic cable, and that Cyrus Field was only their American
   agent, occupying a very subordinate place, while Americans
   say that Mr. Field was the father of the Atlantic cable. When
   an emergency comes, and the child is in trouble in a foreign
   land, the father does not care to dispute over the precedency
   of inventors. What he wants to do is to send a message under
   the sea. Don’t dispute over the Bible, therefore, but use the
   Bible. He who analyzes a flower must lose the sweet rose. When a
   pilgrim is crossing the desert, one handful of wheat for hunger
   is worth a bushel of diamonds. Remember the use and purpose for
   which the Bible was written. It is a guide to right living, it
   shows the path to God’s throne.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1408)


                            HIGHER LAW, THE

   It is told of the Grand Duke Alexis of Russia, that soon after
   he was assigned to duty as midshipman, his vessel was wrecked
   off the coast of Denmark. The Admiral commanding resolved to
   save the young man, and ordered him to take charge of the
   first boat which put off from the doomed ship. The Grand Duke
   disdained safety thus bought and declined. “My duty is here,” he
   said to the admiral, “and I must be the last to leave the ship.”
   “Do you not understand, sir,” exclaimed the admiral, “that you
   are under my command? And do you dare refuse obedience to my
   orders?” “I know my duty,” answered the midshipman, “and I will
   obey any orders you may see fit to give me, except an order to
   leave the ship, where my duty now commands me to remain.” The
   admiral gave up his point and Alexis was the last man to leave
   the ship, and after landing, was promptly ordered under arrest
   for disobedience of orders. He submitted without a murmur. The
   admiral sent dispatches to the Emperor detailing the affair, and
   the Emperor wrote: “I approve your having placed the midshipman
   under arrest for disobedience, and I bless my boy for having
   disobeyed.” (Text.)

    (1409)

   See DECEPTION JUSTIFIED.


                              HIGHER LIFE

   Verestchagin, the famous Russian artist, once painted a picture
   above the clouds. He climbed to the top of one of the Himalaya
   Mountains, and lived amid the snow and ice, where the colorings
   were gorgeous in beauty. There he portrayed the mighty peaks and
   the beauty of the morning clouds as no other artist has ever
   done.

Elevation of life has much to do with vision of soul.

    (1410)


   =Higher, Survival of the=--See GOOD VICTORIOUS.


                              HIGHER, THE

   There is an old Dutch picture of a little child who is dropping
   from his hands a beautiful toy. Looking at the painting, one is
   surprized to see the plaything so carelessly abandoned; until,
   following the child’s eye to the corner of the picture, one sees
   a lovely white dove flying down into the child’s outstretched
   hands.

That is the way it will be with all of us as soon as we actually begin
to see the pure beauties and joys of the higher life. All our silly
playthings will be allowed to fall out of our hands. We shall let go
of fashion and luxury, and idle dissipation, and proud ambition, and
greed for gain, and desire for men’s applause and for advancement in
the world, and we shall stretch out our hands for the things that are
best worth having. Those are the things which will stay with us. They
will give something of their nature to our lives, and will ennoble
everything they touch. (Text.)

    (1411)


   =Highways=--See PATHS, KEEPING ONE’S OWN.


                     HISTORY AND MUSIC CORRELATED

   How closely our own history and our songs are connected! One
   can not properly teach our “Star-spangled Banner” without
   going quite into detail and telling the thrilling incidents
   surrounding its creation. No wedding of poetry and music has
   ever been made under more inspiring circumstances. It was caught
   up in the camps, sung around the bivouac-fires, and whistled
   in the streets. When peace was declared and the soldiers went
   back to their homes, they carried this song in their hearts,
   as the most precious souvenir of the War of 1812. Then there
   are other patriotic songs, all one with our history. Boys, as
   a rule, prefer these songs, and will sing them with a hearty
   zest. I think they must appreciate the feeling of the young
   major in a Confederate uniform, who said: “Boys, if we’d had
   your songs, we’d have licked you out of your boots! Who couldn’t
   have marched and fought with such songs?”--ELIZABETH
   CASTERTON, “Journal of the National Educational
   Association,” 1905.

    (1412)


                           HOLDING THEIR OWN

   Two tired tourists were tramping in Switzerland. They were on
   the way to Interlaken, where they proposed to dine and pass the
   night. Late in the afternoon, when hunger and fatigue began to
   make walking unpleasant, they accosted a farmer.

   “How far is it,” they asked, “to Interlaken?”

   “Two miles,” was the reply.

   They walked hopefully on. A half hour passed. Interlaken was not
   yet in sight. So, seeing another farmer in a field, they shouted
   to him:

   “Are we near Interlaken?”

   “Keep straight forward,” the farmer shouted back; “it’s just two
   miles.”

   The tired, hungry tourists trudged on again. Another half-hour
   passed, and still no sign of Interlaken.

   “Is Interlaken very far from here?” they asked a third farmer.

   “No, gentlemen,” said the farmer, “it is only two miles.”

   Then the tourists looked at one another, and the younger sighed
   and exclaimed:

   “Well, thank goodness, we’re holding our own,
   anyhow.”--Cleveland _Leader_.

    (1413)


   =Holystoning=--See DRUDGERY.


                                HOMAGE

   When Rollo, the Dane, made his treaty with Charles the Simple,
   of France, by which he became a Christian and won Giselle, a
   daughter of Charles, for his wife, one of the ceremonies to
   be performed was to do homage. This was to kneel, clasp hands
   with the king, and kiss his foot, which was covered with an
   elegantly-fashioned slipper on such occasions--all in token of
   submission. But the proud Rollo did all save kissing the foot.
   No remonstrance, urgency or persuasion could induce him to
   consent to it.

   On the slipper which the pope of Rome for hundreds of years
   has worn on certain state occasions, and which the kneeling
   suppliant kisses, is embroidered a cross, the sacred symbol of
   the divine Redeemer’s sufferings and death. (Text.)

But true homage is not ceremony, it is the attitude of the soul toward
one who is greater.

    (1414)


                           HOMAGE TO CHRIST

The following story is told of England’s Queen:

   When Queen Victoria was but a girl they went to instruct her in
   matters of court etiquette. “You are to go to hear ‘the Messiah’
   to-morrow night, and when they sing through the oratorio and
   come to the hallelujah chorus, we will all rise, but you are the
   Queen; sit still.” So when they came to the hallelujah chorus
   the Englishmen sprang to their feet and cheered, while the Queen
   sat; but when they came to the place where they sang, “And King
   of kings and Lord of lords,” she rose and bowed her head. That
   was at the beginning of her reign.

   But when she came almost to the end of her reign, and Canon
   Farrar was preaching on the second coming of Christ, she sent
   for him to enter the Queen’s box, and when he came in, Her
   Majesty said:

   “Dr. Farrar, I wish that the Savior might come while I am still
   upon the throne, because,” she said, “I should like to take the
   crown of England and lay it at His feet.” (Text.)

    (1415)


                                 HOME

Lamar Fontaine describes graphically the effect upon contending armies
of the strains of “Home, Sweet Home”:

   Just before “taps” every band, on both sides, sent the
   strains of that immortal song, “Home, Sweet Home,” in
   soul-stirring notes out on the wings of the night, quivering
   and reverberating, with endless echoes from hill, dale, and
   valley--and answered by a thousand brass instruments, bass and
   kettledrums, and more than a hundred thousand living throats.
   It was a time and scene never to be forgotten, for in that hour
   Yank and Reb were kin, and the horrors of war, the groans of
   the dead and dying upon the bleak, wind-swept field of death at
   our very feet were forgotten, and the whole armies of the gray
   and blue were wafted back to the quiet fireside of mother and
   father, wife and babes, far, far from the bloody, corpse-strewn
   plain beneath us.--“My Life and My Lectures.”

    (1416)

       *       *       *       *       *

How few people go into raptures over home. Helen T. Churchill did at
least in this poem:

            One spot alone on earth
               Is fair to me--
            There centers all the mirth,
              There I would be.
    There, only there, God’s sunlight pierces through
    And all the heaven paints with stainless blue.

            You praise this land as fair,
              Its streams, its bow’rs;
            The common weeds are there
              As rarest flow’rs--
    The fields Elysian. Ah, why should we roam?
    One spot alone enchants--we call it home!
    (Text.)--_The Woman’s Home Companion._

    (1417)

   See HEAVEN OUR HOME.


                            HOME ATMOSPHERE

   The atmosphere of a home expresses a clearly defined reality.
   The atmosphere is the spirit of the house, emanating from the
   deep well of the subconscious mind of the homekeeper. God has
   created no more gracious figure in His great world than that of
   the wife and mother, who gives to the very place of her abode
   her own quiet, buoyant, soothing spirit. What she is in the
   unsounded deeps of her being will appear in time in the house
   where she dwells and in the faces of the little children that
   look up to her. On the other hand, the home of the card-club
   woman and the home of the gad-about! Who does not know them and
   shudder at the thought? Their atmosphere is that of restlessness
   and spiritual poverty. Wo betide her children and her husband;
   for she can not give them, after their day of temptations and
   vexation, that by which they are renewed, the spirit of peace
   and quiet confidence in good.--ROBERT MACDONALD.

    (1418)


                           HOME, CHOICE OF A

   An English swallow once selected a strange resting-place. At
   Corton, Lowestoft, England, a naturalist discovered a swallow’s
   nest with young birds in it on the revolving part of the
   machinery of a common windmill.

   The particular spot chosen was the “wallomer,” the outer edge
   of one of the wheels. The revolutions averaged thirty a minute,
   and the naturalist estimated that in that time the nest traveled
   about one hundred and eighty feet. The young birds would
   certainly be experienced travelers before they left such a nest.

   The mother bird, when sitting, usually traveled tail foremost,
   and when she entered or left the mill she had to make use of the
   hole through which the laying shaft projected. To do this it was
   necessary for her to dodge the sails, which were, of course,
   hung close to the wall of the mill.

   When the creaking and shaking of the machinery of a windmill
   is taken into account, one can hardly fail to be struck with
   the peculiar taste of the bird that chose such an apparently
   uncongenial spot in which to rear her young.--_Harper’s
   Weekly._

    (1419)


   =Home Discipline=--See FAMILY RELIGION.


                   HOME, FOUNDATION OF THE REPUBLIC

Judge Ben B. Lindsey who has secured many things for the children
during the last ten years, such as playgrounds, detention schools,
public baths, probation system, summer outings, fresh-air camps, etc.,
says in the _Survey_:

   What began to loom upon me almost to oppress me, was the
   injustice in our social and economic system that made most of
   these palliatives necessary. I began to see more than I ever
   saw in my life how the foundation of the republic is the home,
   and the hope of the republic is in the child that comes from
   the home, and that there can be no real protection, no real
   justice for the child, until justice is done the home. More than
   through books I saw through the tears and misfortunes of these
   children, the defects and injustice in our social, political
   and economic conditions, and I have to thank the child for my
   education. After ten years I owe more to the children than they
   owe to me. They have helped me be a better man, and, I am sure,
   a more useful and serviceable one. I had learned to love to
   work with them and for them in the boys’ clubs, the recreation
   centers, through the court and probation work and in other ways,
   and when I began to see, as I thought I saw, some of the causes
   of poverty, misfortune, misery, and crime, I began to question
   myself. Could I help do real justice to the child unless I could
   help smash some of these causes that were smashing the homes,
   crippling the parents and robbing the child of his birth-right?

    (1420)


                              HOME LIGHTS

   The light of the home is indeed glorious. We think of the
   lighting of the lamps at eventime and find, in the coming of
   that artificial day which sets the light in the window, a sign
   of defiance to the night, as if it were a great triumph of human
   intelligence. It is, indeed, a triumph. The thought of sending
   on the heels of the day another day which keeps off the darkness
   of night shows how well man has mastered the forces around him.
   The spiritual light within the home, however, is greater than
   this--the kindliness of husband and wife toward each other and
   toward the children, the light on the faces of the home circle,
   this is a more precious gleam than any which shines from star or
   sun.--FRANCIS J. MCCONNELL.

    (1421)


                           HOME, LONGING FOR

    Come away! come away! you can hear them calling, calling,
    Calling us to come to them, and roam no more,
    Over there beyond the ridges and the land that lies between us,
    There’s an old song calling us to come!

    Come away! come away! for the scenes we leave behind us
    Are barren for the lights of home and a flame that’s young forever;
    And the lonely trees around us creak the warning of the night-wind,
    That love and all the dreams of love are away beyond the mountains,
    The songs that call for us to-night, they have called for men
      before us,
    And the winds that blow the message, they have blown ten thousand
      years;
    But this will end our wander-time, for we know the joy that waits us
    In the strangeness of home-coming, and a faithful woman’s eyes.
    Come away! come away; there is nothing now to cheer us--
    Nothing now to comfort us, but love’s road home:
    Over there beyond the darkness there’s a window gleams to greet us,
    And a warm hearth waits for us within.

    --EDWARD ARLINGTON ROBINSON, “The Wilderness.”

    (1422)


   =Home Privacy=--See PRIVACY, LACK OF.


                         HOME, THE OLD AND NEW

   The old home, with its family-room, evening-lamp, regular life,
   and community of interests, has given place to a home in which
   the family are all together for the first time in the day at the
   evening meal, and then only for a brief hour, after which they
   scatter to their several engagements. A little boy was asked by
   a neighbor, as his father was leaving the house one morning,
   who that gentleman was, and he replied: “Oh, I don’t know; he’s
   the man who stays here nights.” This might well be a leaf from
   the actual home life in our cities. In some cases fathers and
   mothers too seldom see their children. Business claims their
   daylight hours; committee, board, or lodge meetings claim their
   evenings; and so the fathers are unavoidably, as it would seem,
   away from home. The church and sundry organizations for social
   service or self-improvement leave the mothers little time for
   their own needy but uncomplaining households. The children have
   their own friends and social life, in which the parents have all
   too small a place and influence.--GEORGE B. STEWART,
   “Journal of the Religious Education Association,” 1903.

    (1423)


                              HOME VALUES

   “American art-students,” says Mr. L. Scott Dabo, a writer in
   _The Arena_, “make a mistake when they seek an ‘artistic
   atmosphere’ in Europe. To go abroad in search of beauty betrays
   soul poverty. The American who fails to find beauty in American
   landscape or artistic atmosphere among his fellow students, will
   never find either abroad, whatever he may induce himself to
   think. After the student has been thoroughly formed at home and
   merged into the artist, and not before, will he be capable of
   appreciating at its true value what the rest of the world has to
   offer.”

    (1424)


                        HOME WHERE THE HEART IS

The following story is told of Hiram Powers, the sculptor:

   Hiram Powers for thirty years wrought in Florence, Italy, away
   from his native land. Here he produced the “Liberty” which
   surmounts the Capitol at Washington, and such idealizations as
   “The Massachusetts Puritan,” and “The California Pioneer.” When
   asked once how he could keep so closely in touch with American
   life, tho he had been away from his native land so long, he
   replied, “I have never been out of touch with America itself. I
   have eaten and slept in Italy for thirty-odd years, but I have
   never lived anywhere but in the United States.”

As the sculptor lived in the United States while working in Italy,
so it is possible for the Christian to be a citizen of heaven while
staying and working here on earth. (Text.)

    (1425)


                               HOMELESS

   Joseph H. Choate tells the story of how he was approached
   one wet, wintry night on one of London’s lonely streets by a
   policeman.

   “I say, old chap,” called the “bobby,” “what are you doing
   walking about in this beastly weather? Better go home.”

   “I have no home,” replied Mr. Choate. “I am the American
   ambassador.”

   This story is repeated in a pamphlet issued by the American
   Embassy Association, whose purpose is to promote and encourage
   the acquisition by the United States of permanent homes for its
   ambassadors in foreign capitals.

    (1426)


                             HOMESICKNESS

   A young Swedish girl was very homesick. “You ought to be
   contented, and not fret for your old home, Ina,” said her
   mistress, as she looked at the dim eyes of the girl. “You are
   earning good wages, your work is light, every one is kind to
   you, and you have plenty of friends here.”

   “Yas’m,” said the girl; “but it is not the place where I do be
   that makes me vera homesick; it is the place where I don’t be.”
   (Text.)--LOUIS ALBERT BANKS.

    (1427)


                         HOMING INSTINCT, THE

The soul’s instinct toward the immortal life is like the instinct of
these wasps:

   Fabre, the wonderful French observer of wasps, experimented on
   them in regard to the matter of finding and knowing their holes,
   by carrying them away shut up in a dark box to the center of a
   village three kilometers from the nesting-ground, and releasing
   them after being kept all night in the dark boxes. These wasps
   when released in the busy town, certainly a place never visited
   by them before, immediately mounted vertically to above the
   roofs and then instantly and energetically flew south, which was
   the direction of their holes. Nine separate wasps, released one
   at a time, did this without a moment’s hesitation, and the next
   day Fabre found them all at work again at their hole-digging.
   He knew them by two spots of white paint he had put on each
   one.--VERNON L. KELLOGG, “Insect Stories.”

    (1428)


                                HONESTY

   A merchant prince once pointed out a clerk in his employ to a
   friend, and said, “That young man is my banker. He alone has
   entire control of my finances. He could abscond with a hundred
   thousand dollars without my preventing it.” Seeing the friend’s
   evident disapproval at so great trust in one man, he continued,
   “I would trust him as I would my minister. He is absolutely
   honest; he could not steal.” And there are thousands of such
   men who have passed beyond temptation because of the ingrained,
   undisturbed integrity, acquired by a reverence for right and
   an early resolution to be true.--JAMES T. WHITE,
   “Character Lessons.”

    (1429)

   See BARGAIN DISCOUNTENANCED; CHRISTIAN HONESTY.


                          HONESTY IN BUSINESS

   The story is told of a young merchant who, beginning
   business some fifty years ago, overheard one day a clerk’s
   misrepresenting the quality of some merchandise. He was
   instantly reprimanded and the article was unsold. The clerk
   resigned his position at once, and told his employer that the
   man who did business that way could not last long. But the
   merchant did last, and but lately died the possessor of the
   largest wealth ever gathered in a single lifetime.--NOAH
   HUNT SCHENCK.

    (1430)


                         HONESTY, INTERMITTENT

   In his “Among the Wild Tribes of the Afghan Frontier,” Dr. T.
   L. Tennell tells of an escort of two villainous-looking Afghans
   who had him in charge in turning back to Bannee from a journey
   across the frontier. They had paid him the greatest attention
   and brought him safely home. When he offered to reward them
   for their good conduct in guarding him and his belongings,
   they repelled the offer with a show of indignation, adding
   that to accept money from a guest would be to break their best
   traditions. But next morning, after he had entertained them
   generously overnight, and sent them off with many expressions
   of appreciation of their faithfulness, he found that they had
   decamped with all his best clothes. Their honesty did not
   survive the night.

    (1431)


                           HONESTY REWARDED

   A merchant required an additional clerk and advertised for a
   boy. The first boy that answered was ushered into a vacant
   room, and told to sit in a particular chair and wait. Looking
   around, he saw upon the floor, just by the chair, a one-dollar
   bill, folded closely, as tho it had been inadvertently dropt. He
   picked up the bill, and satisfying his conscience that “finding
   is having,” even tho on another’s premises, he put it into his
   pocket. Almost immediately the merchant came in, and after a
   few questions, dismissed the boy as not satisfactory. The next
   boy was seated in the same chair, and he also saw a one-dollar
   bill lying in the same manner beside him; but he picked it up
   and laid it on the table. The merchant entered, and after some
   questions, pointed to the bill and asked where it came from.
   The boy said he saw it on the floor and put it where it would
   be safe. The merchant said, “As it did not appear to belong to
   any one, why did you not keep it?” The boy replied, “Because it
   did not belong to me.” “My boy,” said the merchant, “you have
   chosen the road that inevitably leads to business success. The
   boy before you chose the wrong one. But how did you learn that
   this was the right path?” The boy answered, “My mother made me
   promise never, under any circumstances, to take what did not
   belong to me; and I promised.” Later in life this boy became
   Secretary of the Treasury.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character
   Lessons.”

    (1432)


   =Honesty, Simulated=--See PRETENSE OF VIRTUE.


                                 HONOR

When Regulus was sent by the Carthaginians, whose prisoner he was,
to Rome, with a convoy of ambassadors to sue for peace, it was on
condition that he should return to his prison if peace was not
effected. He took an oath to do so. When he appeared at Rome he urged
the senators to persevere in the war and not to agree to the exchange
of prisoners. That advice involved his return to captivity. The
senators, and even the chief priest, held that as his oath was wrested
from him by force, he was not bound to go. “Have you resolved to
dishonor me?” asked Regulus. “I am not ignorant that tortures and death
are preparing for me; but what are these to the shame of an infamous
action, or the wounds of a guilty mind? Slave as I am to Carthage, I
have still the spirit of a Roman. I have sworn to return. It is my
duty to go. Let the gods take care of the rest.” Regulus accordingly
returned to Carthage and was tortured to death.

    (1433)

       *       *       *       *       *

If one is possest of a delicate sense of honor it is not necessary to
bind him with promises to keep personal matters confidential:

   A New England school-teacher maintained an intimate friendship
   and spent much time with the poet Tennyson during his later
   years. One evening, when the two were thus together, Tennyson
   said that he would depart from his custom and narrate a personal
   experience; but he had suffered a good deal from repetitions of
   his tales by those to whom he had told them, and he would be
   obliged to ask his friend never to repeat what he was about to
   hear.

   The American smoked on for a few seconds while Tennyson waited
   for the promise, and then he said, “My lord, in my country a
   gentleman would never make that request of another gentleman.”
   “H-h-m!” said the poet, and looked out of eyes that wondered if
   the quiet smoker opposite knew how much he’d said. Then he told
   the story.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (1434)

   See MONEY NO TEMPTATION.


                           HONOR AMONG BOYS

   Two boys, John and William, both about the age of twelve, had a
   dispute over a game of ball, when John said that such action was
   mean and dishonest, upon which William immediately called him a
   liar, and they began to fight. They were not quarrelsome boys;
   they were serious and studious, but were boys of spirit and held
   high ideas of honor and uprightness. The teacher, who was a man
   of strong character, and a sturdy disciplinarian, came promptly
   upon the scene and separated the combatants, and sent both
   boys to their seats. The breach of school discipline had been
   flagrant, and all expected that severe punishment would be meted
   out to the boys. But nothing was said until just before school
   was dissmissed, when the teacher called the boys before him and
   said, “Do you think you did right in engaging in this fight?”
   To which both boys said they did, and that they would fight one
   another again upon the first opportunity. After some reflection,
   the teacher turned to John and said, “John, will you agree
   never to mention this subject until William mentions it first?”
   John replied, “Yes, but I will lick him good if he ever does.”
   The teacher turned to William and asked the same question, to
   which he replied, “I will not start it, but if John does I
   will lick him.” The teacher then said, “I think you are both
   honorable and trustworthy boys, and I am going to depend upon
   you to keep your word of honor, and not renew this fight until
   the other begins it. Now John, you take William by the hand,
   and tell him that you will never mention this subject unless he
   first speaks of it; but if he does, you will lick him.” The boys
   joined hands, and John told it over to William, and then William
   told it over to John. The solemnity with which the proceeding
   was conducted all the way through made a deep impression on the
   entire school, who felt it to be a very sacred thing between
   the two boys, and that it should never be even hinted at. This
   was a lesson in courage, self-respect, obedience, fidelity and
   self-control to the whole school, and it resulted in a lifelong
   friendship between the two boys.--JAMES T. WHITE,
   “Character Lessons.”

    (1435)


                           HONOR, EXAMPLE OF

   Horace B. Claflin, before he was twenty-one, had bought out his
   father’s grocery business. Intoxicating liquors were at that
   time considered an indispensable part of the grocery equipment;
   but the young merchant, as soon as he came into possession,
   emptied the wine-casks into the street. Later on he engaged in
   the dry-goods business, a large portion of which was in the
   slave-holding States; and when anti-slavery principles involved
   a business loss to Northern merchants, Claflin announced himself
   an uncompromising opponent of slavery. Such a stand and the
   Civil War coming on cut off his resources and revenues, and he
   was forced to suspend. He asked from his creditors an extension
   of time on a basis of seventy per cent of his indebtedness;
   but soon after resuming business Claflin paid off his extended
   paper long before maturity, and also the thirty per cent which
   had been unconditionally released, not only paying the entire
   amount of his indebtedness but also paying interest on the
   debt.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (1436)


   =Honor in Failure=--See OBLIGATIONS, MEETING.


                          HONOR, THE ROAD TO

   In one of his great debates on American taxation, Edmund Burke
   once paused to say, with regard to the consequence of the course
   he was pursuing: “I know the map of England as well as the noble
   lord or any other person, and I know the road I take is not the
   road to preferment.” But he took it, nevertheless.

The end of the right road is never obscurity or ingratitude or obloquy.
It is the smile and welcome of God. Even here on the earth, the man who
does right comes to his own. Of the men of his age in England, Burke is
now among the most honored and will be among the longest remembered.

    (1437)


   =Honoring Mother=--See LOVE, FILIAL.


   =Honors for Negro Girl=--See NEGRO EXCELLING.


                           HONOR’S ROLL-CALL

In a Decoration-day address Thomas Wentworth Higginson said:

   The great French soldier, de Latour d’Auvergne, was the hero
   of many battles, but remained by his own choice in the ranks.
   Napoleon gave him a sword and the official title “The First
   Grenadier of France.” When he was killed, the Emperor ordered
   that his heart should be intrusted to the keeping of his
   regiment--that his name should be called at every roll-call, and
   that his next comrade should make answer, “Dead upon the field
   of honor.” In our memories are the names of many heroes; we
   treasure all their hearts in this consecrated ground, and when
   the name of each is called, we answer in flowers, “Dead upon the
   field of honor.”

    (1438)


                                 HOPE

    Have hope! Tho clouds environ round,
      And gladness hides her face in scorn,
    Put thou the shadow from thy brow;
      No night but hath its morn.

    --SCHILLER.

    (1439)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The world has no time and no use for the man who has no time and
   no use for hope. A gentleman on being asked to contribute to the
   erection of a monument replied: “Not a dollar; I am ready to
   contribute toward building monuments to those who make us hope,
   but I will not give a dollar to help perpetuate the memory and
   influence of those who live to make us despair.”--JOHN E.
   ADAMS.

    (1440)

       *       *       *       *       *

Hope was the one thing that remained in Pandora’s box. While it remains
men may courageously face life and the future.

   When Alexander the Great crossed into Asia, he gave away almost
   all his belongings to his friends. One of his captains asked
   him, “Sire, what do you keep for yourself?” “I keep hope,” was
   the answer of the king. (Text.)

    (1441)


                             HOPE DEFERRED

   Once there was a woman whose harmless madness was to believe
   herself to be a bride, and on the eve of her wedding. Waking
   up in the morning, she asked for a white dress, and a bride’s
   crown; smiling, she adorned herself. “To-day he will come,” she
   said. In the evening sadness overmastered her, after the idle
   waiting; she then took off her white dress. But the following
   morning, with the dawn, her confidence returned. “It is for
   to-day,” she said. And her life passed in this tenacious, altho
   ever-deceiving, certitude--taking off her gown of hope, only to
   put it on again. (Text.)

    (1442)


                            HOPE ENERGIZES

   Hope is energy. The provisions have failed; the boat leaks,
   the seas rise, strength is gone, and intolerable thirst alone
   remains. But, upon the horizon there rise the masts and then the
   hull of the liner. Hope at once energizes. With the vestige of
   remaining strength, the distress signal is hoisted, it is seen;
   it is answered, the steamer’s course is changed, and rescue is
   at hand.--JOHN E. ADAMS.

    (1443)


   =Hope, Imparting=--See SICK, MIRROR AN AID TO THE.


   =Hope Revived=--See EXTREMITY NOT FINAL.


                             HOPELESS FEAR

   Is there not an Eastern apologue which tells how the Angel of
   Pestilence was questioned as to the ten thousand victims he had
   slain? And did he not answer, “Nay, Lord, I took but a thousand;
   the rest were slain by my friend Panic.” How many, too, have
   sunk into the deep waters of the black river and been floated
   on to the ocean of eternity, for very paralysis of hope when
   the evil hour was upon them and they had just wetted their feet
   on the brink! They could, and they would have stept back to the
   solid shore; but they had no courage for the attempt, no energy
   to strike out to the land. The waters closed over their bowed
   head, and they sobbed away their breath in the very supineness
   of terror, the very lethargy of hopeless fear. Death is like
   everything else--a foe to be fought, a wild beast to be kept at
   bay. They who contend with most spirit live the greater number
   of days. The will to live and the determination not to die make
   the most efficacious antidote against the poison of the “lethal
   dart.” The hopelessness of fear is that poison itself.--E.
   LYNN LINTON--_The Forum_.

    (1444)


   =Horizons, Short=--See AVERAGE LIFE.


   =Horoscopy=--See BIRTH CEREMONIES.


                         HOSPITALITY, ABUSE OF

   The writer, when a boy, was invited with all the other members
   of his class to a picnic at the home of one of his companions,
   who was very poor, and whose widowed mother supported herself
   and her son from a small apple orchard. After spending the
   afternoon in boyish sports, the class was invited into the
   orchard to have some apples. With generous hospitality the host
   invited the boys to help themselves; but to his amazement, the
   boys, who were all from homes of refinement and supposed to be
   well brought up, began an orgy of unrestrained apple-eating,
   and after gorging themselves with all they could possibly eat,
   stript the trees in wanton waste, just taking a bite here and
   there and destroyed barrels of apples. The poor boy host could
   not conceal that this waste was an unlooked-for financial loss.
   It was an intemperate indulgence and abuse of hospitality that
   was contemptible.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (1445)


                         HOSPITALITY IN CHURCH

   Some years ago a young man came from the West to Pittsburg as
   a student. He did not know a solitary human being in either of
   the “Twin Cities.” At his boarding-house he was asked where
   he thought of going to church. He mentioned the place he had
   chosen, not because he knew anybody there, but because it was
   near at hand. “Well,” the questioner replied, “they will soon
   freeze you out from that congregation.” “I’ll give them a
   chance to welcome me, anyway,” was the rejoinder. “I don’t
   believe they are as cold as you think.”

   The next Sunday morning found the student waiting in the
   vestibule for an usher to show him a seat. All of them were
   busy at the time, and the young man waited--did not run out of
   the door--just waited until some one had had a fair chance to
   notice him. After a while he felt a little squeeze of his arm
   from somebody behind. He turned and was confronted by a rather
   stout gentleman of strong but kindly features. There was but one
   word of inquiry--“Stranger?” “Yes, sir,” the young man replied.
   “Come with me to my seat.” “Stranger” obeyed. Shortly after
   two ladies entered the same pew. Not a word was spoken until
   after the benediction. Then the stout gentleman uttered another
   interrogatory word, “Student?” “Yes, sir,” was the reply. “Come
   and take dinner with me.” (Aside: “What’s your name?”) “This
   lady is my mother, and this, my sister. Here, let me introduce
   you to one of our elders, and here comes the pastor, Dr. Cox.
   Say, Mr. Shelly (a deacon), come over here; here’s a new friend
   I have just found; we want him to get acquainted. Now, let’s
   start for home.” (On the way): “Sing?” “A little--not very
   much--just enough, I guess.” “Come up to our mission Sunday
   school after dinner and help us, will you? I am superintendent.”
   “Sure.”

   That day was the beginning of three years of happy acquaintance
   and helpful social intercourse with as cordial a congregation
   as ever assembled in any church.--H. H. STILES,
   _Christian Observer_.

    (1446)


                       HOSPITALITY IN OLD TIMES

The Rev. Asa Bullard tells this incident illustrating the hospitality
expected of the parish minister in former days:

   The clergyman’s house, in those days, was indeed regarded as the
   minister’s tavern. It was open to all clergymen. Now and then
   a minister would be found who would call on a perfect stranger
   for hospitality, giving very strange reasons. One who had been
   traveling in Maine called on a pastor of one of the large
   churches in Massachusetts for entertainment during the night;
   and he gave as a reason for taking such liberty that “he met his
   brother one day, as they both stopt at the same trough to water
   their horses.” (Text.)--“Incidents in a Busy Life.”

    (1447)


   =Hospitals, The Utility of=--See CHARITY, LOGIC OF.


   =Hospitals, Walking=--See TALKING AND SICKNESS.


   =Host’s Adaptation=--See TACT.


   =House Bookkeeping=--See BALANCE, A LOOSE.


   =Housecleaning=--See DUST AND VIOLETS.


   =Household, Head of the=--See CHINA AND AMERICA COMPARED.


                           HOUSE OF THE SOUL

    This body is my house--it is not I;
    Herein I sojourn till, in some far sky
    I lease a fairer dwelling, built to last
    Till all the carpentry of time is past.

    --UNIDENTIFIED.

    (1448)


                           HOUSE, THE MORTAL

   When John Quincy Adams was eighty years old he met in the
   streets of Boston an old friend, who shook his trembling hand,
   and said:

   “Good-morning! And how is John Quincy Adams to-day?”

   “Thank you,” was the ex-President’s answer; “John Quincy Adams
   himself is well, sir; quite well, I thank you. But the house
   in which he lives at present is becoming dilapidated. It is
   tottering upon its foundation. Time and the seasons have nearly
   destroyed it. Its roof is pretty well worn out. Its walls
   are much shattered, and it trembles with every wind. The old
   tenement is becoming almost uninhabitable, and I think John
   Quincy Adams will have to move out of it soon; but he himself is
   quite well, sir; quite well.”

   It was not long afterward that he had his second and fatal
   stroke of paralysis.

   “This is the last of earth,” he said. “I am content.” (Text.)

    (1449)


   =Human Companionship Slighted=--See ANIMALS, ABSURD FONDNESS FOR.


                           HUMAN FACTOR, THE

   It is not on the fertility of the soil, it is not on the
   mildness of the atmosphere, that the prosperity of nations
   chiefly depends. Slavery and superstition can make Campania
   a land of beggars, and can change the plain of Enna into a
   desert. Nor is it beyond the power of human intelligence
   and energy, developed by civil and spiritual freedom, to
   turn sterile rocks and pestilential marshes into cities and
   gardens.--MACAULAY.

    (1450)


   =Human Life Lengthening=--See LONGEVITY INCREASING.


   =Human Means=--See EVANGELIZATION.


                      HUMAN NATURE, INSECURITY OF

   On certain parts of the English coast calamitous landslips occur
   from time to time. Massive cliffs rise far above the level of
   the sea and seem solidly socketed into the earth below. But
   these rest, through some geological “fault,” on sharply inclined
   planes of clay. The moisture trickling through the cliffs in
   course of time tells on the slippery substance below till this
   becomes like the greased way down which a ship is launched.
   The day comes when the whole cliff, with its hundreds of feet
   of buttresses, slides bodily down, crashing to the rocks or
   into the water. Our human nature has in it a moral stratum of
   irresolution on which it is not safe to build our character. We
   must go down to the rock-bed of decision and must rest on the
   foundation of conviction that can not be shaken. Let us see to
   it that conviction of truth is formed within us. (Text.)

    (1451)


                        HUMAN NATURE MUCH ALIKE

Charles Somerville, writing of the lower strata of society, that he
calls the “underworld,” says:

   Its inhabitants are not so altogether different from you and
   me. More wilful in their weaknesses, certainly, they are; more
   hysterical in their hilarities; blinder in their loves and
   bitterer in their hatreds; supinely subject to all emotions,
   good or bad, undoubtedly.... I remember so well the first time
   I saw a burglar in flesh and blood. His black mask was off, his
   revolver was in the possession of the police; he had just been
   sentenced to ten years’ imprisonment and was saying good-by
   to his wife and three little children. He was wholly like any
   other grief-stricken human being. His sob was the same. He was
   a sandy-haired man with rather large, foolish blue eyes. It
   was hard to imagine those same large blue eyes looking very
   terrible, even behind a black mask. (Text.)

    (1452)


                             HUMAN PASSION

   A teacher abandons her class of boys after some particularly
   disappointing outbreak, and in the utterance of her despair of
   doing more for them, discloses her wounded pride which resents
   such humbling. The reformer who has carried an election only to
   find the city slipping back into the old ways of corruption,
   becomes a common scold in his chagrin that all his labor counts
   for nothing, while his adversaries laugh at his impotence.
   And now and then a minister flings himself out of the pulpit,
   storming at the failure of the church, because his plans are
   balked and his self-denial goes unappreciated. In all this zeal
   for God that cries for judgment, there is so much of human
   passion eager for a personal vindication.--“Monday Club, Sermons
   on the International Sunday-school Lessons for 1904.”

    (1453)


                         HUMAN TRAITS IN BIRDS

   Our domestic birds often manifest symptoms of passions, whims,
   and moral aberrations, clearly analogous to those of their biped
   proprietors; and in the higher animals those manifestations
   become so unmistakable that a student of moral zoology is often
   tempted to indorse the view of that schoolgirl who defined
   a monkey as “a very small boy with a tail.” According to
   Arthur Schopenhauer’s theory of moral evolution, the conscious
   prestige of our species first reveals itself in the emotions of
   headstrong volition that makes a little baby stamp its feet and
   strike down its fist, “commanding violently before it could form
   anything like a clear conception of its own wants. Untutored
   barbarians,” he adds, “are apt to indulge in similar methods of
   self-assertion, and, in settling a controversy, prefer menacing
   gestures to rational explanations. That tendency, however, is
   not confined to infants and savages. In his controversies with
   his cage-mate (a female spaniel), my pet Cutch will lay hold of
   the dog’s tail and enforce his theories with a peremptory pull
   that never fails to provoke a rough-and-tumble fight; but, long
   after the dog has relapsed into sullen silence, her antagonist
   will shake the cage with resounding blows, and every now and
   then steal a look at the bystanders, to invite their attention
   to his ‘best method of dealing with heretics.’”--FELIX
   OSWALD, _Popular Science Monthly_.

    (1454)


                       HUMAN TRAITS IN DISASTER

Commenting on the great Johnstown flood, Julian Hawthorne wrote:

   We know, despite all deprecation, that the heights and depths
   of humanity can not be overstated. One man rides hand in hand
   with death for the sake of the lives of his fellow men. Another
   mutilates the sacred hand of the infant for the sake of its
   gold ring. A mother intrusts her children, one after the other,
   to the flood, hoping the reeling plank may save them, but
   believing that, whether or not, they are safe with God. In the
   midst of the kingdom of death, another mother brings a new life
   into the world. An officer of the guard profanes the awful day
   with maudlin drunkenness. A population sees the accumulation
   of lifetimes, and half its own members, annihilated in one
   desperate hour, and it is silent because silence is the only
   complete expression of misery. And over all the continent, upon
   converging lines, are journeying the tangible proof of sympathy
   from a nation which hastens to acknowledge the indestructible
   brotherhood of man.

    (1455)


                           HUMANE SENTIMENT

   An incident showing the growth of the humane sentiment is told
   in connection with the recent Paris flood. Upon one occasion
   great crowds gathered on the banks of the Seine at a point
   where what appeared to be a man, but which turned out to be a
   pig, that had been carried out of its sty by the flood, was
   making a struggle for life. After humane bystanders had manned
   a boat, rescued the animal, and brought it to shore, one woman
   declared she could not think of allowing it to be saved from
   drowning only to be butchered, and offered to purchase it from
   its owner for $38. After securing the animal, the problem was
   to get it to its new quarters, and this she solved by buying a
   collar, to which she attached a rope to be used as a leader.
   In her promenade as a pig-leader she was assisted by a great
   crowd, who jested and jeered, and finally the pig was installed
   in his new home. Our forefathers who engaged in pig-sticking
   by way of sport would doubtless be amazed if told that the
   time would ever come when people in a flood-plagued city would
   not only rescue a drowning pig, but save it from the butcher’s
   knife.--_Vogue._

    (1456)


   =Humble Helpers=--See INTERDEPENDENCE.


   =Humble Helpers Remembered=--See NEGRO “MAMMY” REMEMBERED.


                              HUMBLE WORK

   One of Beethoven’s most famous concertos was suggested to the
   composer as he heard repeated knocks in the stillness of the
   night at the door of a neighbor. The concerto begins with
   four soft taps of the drum--an instrument which is raised in
   this work to the rare dignity of a solo instrument. Again and
   again the four beats are heard throughout the music, making
   a wonderful effect. God uses even the humblest player in His
   orchestra for some solo work. A man who can only play a drum can
   be made valuable in the music of the world. Let us be ready to
   do what He bids us, modest and obscure as our part may be, and
   thus we shall help on the harmonies of heaven. (Text.)

    (1457)


                          HUMDRUM DEVELOPMENT

The Rev. Charles Stelzle writes this lesson from the experience of the
yard engineer:

   “Go ahead; that’ll do; back up; a little more. That’ll do.” A
   yard crowded full of freight-cars that needed to be shifted and
   shunted--this is the work and the vision that daily greet the
   “driver” of the switch-engine. He is shut off from the scenery
   and the romance which the engineer of the lightning express is
   supposed to enjoy. He sees little besides the waving arms or the
   swinging lantern of the switchman. He hears little besides the
   screaming of slipping wheels, the bumping of freight-cars, the
   hissing of the escaping steam and the monotonous voice of his
   fireman repeating the orders signaled from his side of the cab.

   But how typical of life it all is. There is no one entirely free
   from the humdrum and the monotone. And this seems to be well,
   for drudgery is one of life’s greatest teachers. The humdrum
   duties of life develop character. It is because we have certain
   duties to perform every day, in spite of headache, heartache and
   weariness, that we lay the foundation of character.

    (1458)


   =Humiliation=--See BARGAIN-MAKING; TIMIDITY.


   =Humiliation, Light in=--See LIGHT IN HUMILIATION.


                               HUMILITY

Dr. Franklin, writing to a friend, says:

   The last time I saw your father he received me in his study,
   and, at my departure, showed me a shorter way out of his house,
   through a narrow passage, crossed by a beam overhead. We were
   talking as we withdrew, and I, turning partly toward him, he
   suddenly cried, “Stoop! stoop!” I did not know what he meant
   till I felt my head hit against the beam. He was a man that
   never failed to impart instruction, and on this occasion said,
   “You are young, and have to go through the world; stoop as you
   go through it, and you will miss many hard thumps.” This advice,
   thus beat into my head, has been of singular service to me, and
   I have often thought of it when I have seen pride mortified and
   men brought low by carrying their heads too high. (Text.)

    (1459)

       *       *       *       *       *

True exaltation is always accompanied by corresponding humility. Truly
great souls never rise in conscious self-aggrandizement. They sink
in self-esteem and are bowed low under a sense of responsibility in
proportion to the splendor of their achievements.

   In the Alps the eagle soars up higher and higher till its
   figure is a mere speck in the zenith. Among the mountains is a
   lake in whose bosom is a perfect reflection of the dome of the
   heavens. The traveler in these regions, standing by the lake,
   sees everything above mirrored in the lake. The flight of the
   eagle higher than the mountain-tops, as reflected in the lake,
   seems to be a descent lower and lower. The higher the flight the
   deeper the bird seems to be diving downward. (Text.)

    (1460)

       *       *       *       *       *

   On the tomb of Copernicus is a figure of himself standing
   with folded hands before a crucifix. In the background are a
   globe and compass. Near the left arm is a skull, and under
   the right arm, written in Latin: “I crave not the grace which
   Paul received, nor the favor with which Thou didst indulge
   Peter; that alone which Thou bestowedst upon the thief on the
   cross--that alone do I entreat.” (Text.)

    (1461)

       *       *       *       *       *

Emerson points out the necessity of humility to any wholly approvable
character in the following story:

   Among the nuns in a convent not far from Rome, one had appeared
   who laid claim to certain rare gifts of inspiration and
   prophecy, and the abbess advised the holy father at Rome of the
   wonderful powers shown by her novice. The Pope did not well know
   what to make of these new claims, and St. Philip Neri, a wise
   devout man of the Church, coming in from a journey one day, he
   consulted him. Philip undertook to visit the nun, and ascertain
   her character. He threw himself on his mule, all travel-soiled
   as he was, and hastened through the mud and more to the distant
   convent. He told the abbess the Pope’s wishes and begged her
   to summon the nun. The nun was sent for, and, as soon as she
   came into the apartment, Philip stretched out his leg, all
   bespattered with mud, and desired her to draw off his boots.
   The young nun, who had become the object of much attention and
   respect, drew back with anger, and refused the office. Philip
   ran out-of-doors, mounted his mule, and returned instantly to
   the Pope. “Give yourself no uneasiness, Holy Father, any longer;
   here is no miracle, for here is no humility.” (Text.)

    (1462)

   See MODESTY.


                        HUMILITY OF A SCIENTIST

   Ten years before his death, Agassiz, wishing to illustrate the
   laborious and slow results of scientific research, said: “I
   have devoted my whole life to the study of nature, and yet a
   single sentence may express all that I have done. I have shown
   that there is a correspondence between the succession of fishes
   in geological times and the different stages of their growth
   in the egg--that is all.” Here speaks the scientist, with that
   humility which characterizes the true student of nature. But
   let me follow with his prouder outlook for such toil: “It is
   given to no mortal man to predict what may be the result of any
   discovery in the realm of nature. When the electric current was
   discovered, what was it? A curiosity. When the first electric
   machine was invented, to what use was it put? To make puppets
   dance for the amusement of children; but should our work have
   no other result than this--to know that certain facts in nature
   are thus and not otherwise, their causes were such and no
   other--this result in itself is good enough and great enough
   since the end of his aim, his glory, is the knowledge of the
   truth.”--JULIA S. VISHER, _The Christian Register_.

    (1463)


                                 HUMOR

    Humor dwells with sanity,
      Truth, and common sense.
    Humor is humanity,
      Sympathy intense.

    Humor always laughs with you,
      Never at you; she
    Loves the fun that’s sweet and true
      And of malice free.

    Paints the picture of the fad,
      Folly of the day,
    As it is, the good and bad,
      In a kindly way.

    There behind her smiling mien,
      In her twinkling eyes,
    Purpose true is ever seen,
      Seriousness lies.

    --JOHN KENDRICK BANGS, _Putnam’s Monthly_.

    (1464)


                         HUMOR AND GENEROSITY

In his “Reminiscences” of the late Sir Henry Irving, says the London
Academy, Joseph Hatton gives an anecdote which shows the great actor in
the role of a humorist:

   A widow of an old Lyceum servant applied to him for some sort of
   occupation about the theater, whereby she might earn a living.
   Irving appealed to Loveday, the manager.

   “There is absolutely no vacancy of any kind,” said Loveday.
   “Can’t you give her a job to look after the theater cats? I
   think we’ve too many mice about, not to mention rats.” “No,”
   said Loveday, “there are two women already on that job.” “Hum,
   ha, let me see,” said Irving, reflectively, then suddenly
   brightening with an idea. “Very well, then, give her the job of
   looking after the two women who are looking after the cats.” The
   widow was at once engaged on the permanent staff of the theater.

    (1465)


                            HUMOR, LACK OF

Rev. W. H. Fitchett points out the lack of humor in Susannah Wesley,
the mother of John Wesley:

   The only charge which can be fairly urged against Susannah
   Wesley is that she had no sense of humor. The very names of
   the children prove the complete absence of any sense of the
   ridiculous in either the rector of Epworth or his wife. One
   daughter was cruelly labeled Mehetabel; a second, Jedidah. Mrs.
   Susannah Wesley’s theological performances while yet in short
   dresses prove her want of humor. A girl of thirteen, who took
   herself solemnly enough to undertake the settlement of “the
   whole question betwixt dissent and the Church” must have been of
   an unsmiling and owl-like gravity. Now, humor has many wholesome
   offices. It acts like a salt to the intellect, and keeps it
   sweet. It enables its owner to see the relative sizes of things.
   It gives an exquisite tact, a dainty lightness of touch to the
   intellectual powers. And Mrs. Wesley visibly lacked any rich
   endowment of that fine grace.--“Wesley and His Century.”

    (1466)


                            HUMOR OVERDONE

In the “War Reminiscences” of General Carl Schurtz, he relates a
conversation which he had with the then famous Thomas Corwin, one of
the great orators of his day, but one whose oratory had come to be
regarded as chiefly remarkable for its display of humor. As General
Schurtz rose to leave Mr. Corwin, at the close of the interview, the
latter said to him:

   I want to say something personal to you. At Allegheny City I
   heard you speak, and I noticed that you can crack a joke and
   make people laugh if you try. I want to say to you, young man,
   if you have any such faculty, don’t cultivate it. I know how
   great the temptation is, and I have yielded to it. One of the
   most dangerous things to a public man is to become known as a
   jester. People will go to hear such a man, and then they will
   be disappointed if he talks to them seriously. They will hardly
   listen to the best things he offers them. They will want to hear
   the buffoon, and are dissatisfied if the buffoon talks sober
   sense. That has been my lot. Look at my career! I am an old man
   now. There has always been a great deal more in Tom Corwin than
   he got credit for. But he did not get credit because it was
   always expected that Tom Corwin would make people laugh. That
   has been my curse. I have long felt it, but too late to get rid
   of the old reputation and to build up a new one. Take my example
   as a warning. (Text.)

    (1467)


   =Humor, Sense of=--See RETRIEVED SITUATION.


                           HUNGER, ENDURING

   General Morgan, on one occasion, in discussing the fighting
   qualities of the soldiers of different nations, came to the
   conclusion that in many respects they were about the same, with
   one notable exception. “After all,” he said, “for the possession
   of the ideal quality of the soldier, for the grand essential,
   give me the Dutchman--he starves well.”--DONALD SAGE
   MACKAY.

    (1468)


   =Hurry=--See HASTE WITHOUT SELF-CONTROL.


   =Husband and Wife=--See MARRIAGE RELATIONS IN THE EAST.


                  HUSBAND AND WIFE, RELATIONS BETWEEN

   We hold certain views with regard to what is proper between
   husband and wife. Those views are not held by the nations in
   general, and missionaries need to be very particular about
   offending. For instance, a husband goes away, and when he
   returns from his tour and gets into the yard, the usual Oriental
   crowd follows. His wife rushes out to greet him, and very
   naturally they kiss. Like Judas, they are betraying the cause by
   that act, because it is most unseemly to do such a thing as that
   openly in certain countries. A missionary friend from Central
   Africa tells of a tribe that he had labored to influence and had
   partially succeeded. When he was leaving for further touring
   and was sending his wife back home, he kissed her. Immediately
   the two hundred men present burst into long and uncontrollable
   laughter, not because it was new to them--for they kiss on
   both cheeks--but because no man ever thought of doing so in
   public. My friend lost more respect in a second than he had
   won for himself by his laborious cultivation of the strange
   tribe.--H. P. BEACH, “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (1469)


                         HUSBANDRY, SPIRITUAL

   The orange men in California sent an expert all over Europe to
   find an enemy of the scale that was destroying the fruit-trees
   of California. One day, in Spain, he found a tiny creature which
   he named the lady-bird. It has a sharp lancet that it thrusts
   into each insect. It goes over the tree with inconceivable
   rapidity. When it finds the scale under the bark it thrusts the
   sword down, and now the lady-bird is working together with the
   husbandman, amid the prune- and orange-trees of California.
   Cockleburs are foes of corn, but a hoe has a sharp edge. Ye are
   God’s harvest field. Hate is a weed, envy and jealousy are sharp
   thorns. Selfishness is a poison vine. Surliness is a fungus
   growth; lurking evil is the deadly night-shade. But love is a
   rose, joy is like a tiger-lily; peace is the modest arbutus.
   Contentment is a sweet vine that grows over the door of the
   house of man’s soul. Honesty and industry are the goodly shocks
   and sheaves; these homely virtues are food to the hungry. God is
   a husbandman.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1470)


   =Husband’s Disloyalty=--See SALOON EFFECTS.


   =Hygienic Conditions=--See HEALTH, ECONOMICS OF.


                             HYMN, A GOOD

   The occasion of the hymn, “Just as I am without one plea,” by
   Charlotte Elliott, and perhaps her masterpiece, is full of
   interest as interpreting its spiritual significance to the soul
   hesitating in its penitent approach to Jesus. Dr. Cæsar Malan,
   of Geneva, was staying at her father’s house, and addressing
   himself to Miss Elliott, who was a stranger to personal
   religion, on this vital subject, the young lady resented it,
   notwithstanding that the clergyman introduced the matter in his
   gentlest manner. Upon reflection, however, she relented, and
   with real concern, added: “You speak of coming to Jesus, but
   how? I am not fit to come.” “Come just as you are,” said Dr.
   Malan. (Text.)

    (1471)


                          HYMN, AN EFFECTIVE

   It is told of John B. Gough how, seated one Sabbath in a church
   service, a strange man was ushered into the pew at his side.
   Conceiving a strong dislike for the man from his mottled face
   and twitching limbs and mumbled sounds, Mr. Gough eyed his
   seat-mate, when, during the organ interlude in singing the hymn,
   “Just as I am without one plea,” the stranger leaned toward
   him and asked how the next verse began. “Just as I am--poor,
   wretched, blind,” answered Mr. Gough. “That’s it,” sobbed the
   man, “I’m blind--God help me,” and he made an effort to join in
   the singing. Said Mr. Gough, in telling the incident, “After
   that the poor paralytic’s singing was as sweet to me as a
   Beethoven symphony.”

    (1472)


   =Hymn-making=--See CHALLENGE.


                          HYPNOTISM AND CRIME

   Hypnotism as an aid to crime has been variously discust in
   France from both the medical and the legal side, with the
   general conclusion that legislation is needed to cover the most
   palpable employment of it. The fact that a hypnotized subject
   can take and execute a criminal suggestion made by another,
   and yet be really innocent of any immoral intent, is beyond
   all doubt; and this fact has led observers to the conclusion
   that the blame must rest upon the giver of the suggestion. An
   additional precaution which the true originator of the crime
   might take would be to give a suggestion forbidding the subject
   to reveal to any one the name of the suggester or the fact of
   the suggestion. On the contrary, he was to say and feel that the
   act was committed of his own accord. This complicated the legal
   aspect of the question very seriously; but further experiments
   have shown that the instigator of the crime would not be so
   entirely safe, after all. M. Jules Liegeois, who has studied
   most carefully the legal aspects of hypnotism, suggested to a
   lady subject that she take a pistol and shoot a certain Mr. O.
   She acted out the suggestion perfectly, not knowing that the
   load was a blank cartridge. When again hypnotized, she admitted
   the crime and defended her action. Another gentleman now gave
   her the suggestions (1) that when the instigator of the crime
   enters the room she should go to sleep for two minutes; (2) on
   awakening, she should fix her eyes upon the man constantly until
   allowed to desist; (3) she should then stand in front of him and
   attempt to conceal him. When M. Liegeois entered the room, she
   fell asleep, and did all that was asked of her, thus revealing
   the instigator, tho told by him not to do so. Professor Bernheim
   induced a subject to steal, and forbade him to mention that
   he had been told to do it. The patient said he stole because
   the idea occurred to him, but, when told to go up to the true
   criminal and say, “Please sing me the ‘Marseillaise,’” he did
   so. It seems, then, that the subject will do nothing that he has
   been categorically forbidden to do, but that he will succumb to
   an indirect mode of revealing the true instigator of the crime.
   This certainly aids the courts, but it is a question how far
   it will be of service when the true criminal is not present,
   and whether additional suggestions in the first instance will
   not considerably interfere with the reliability of later
   testimony. Its further development will be watched with great
   interest by all students of the scientific aspects of mental
   phenomena.--_Science._

    (1473)


                               HYPOCRISY

LITTLE WILLIE--Say, pa, what is a hypocrite?

PA--A hypocrite, my son, is a man who publicly thanks Providence for
his success, then gets mad every time anybody insinuates that he isn’t
mainly responsible for it himself.--_Tit-Bits._

    (1474)

       *       *       *       *       *

   When one proceeds after the fashion of certain processions,
   that take one step back every time they take two forward, what
   is there astonishing if he does not cover any appreciable
   distance? But man has the silly childishness to believe that
   what he does at certain hours and without the pale of that part
   of his life which is known, does not count. He flatters himself
   that the assets alone will figure in the final reckoning; that
   what he puts openly in the balance will be weighed, but that
   what he secretly withdraws will not be deducted. Like that
   merchant, at once pious and crafty, who, on Sunday closed his
   shop, but received his patrons through a side door, he honors
   God publicly, and, in secret, betrays Him. (Text.)--CHARLES
   WAGNER, “The Gospel of Life.”

    (1475)


   =Hypocrisy in Prayer=--See DIPLOMACY, COWARDLY.




                                   I


                              ICE BEAUTY

   If we had not our bewitching autumn foliage, we should still
   have to credit the weather with one feature which compensates
   for all its bullying vagaries--the ice-storm--when a leafless
   tree is clothed with ice from the bottom to the top--ice that is
   as bright and clear as crystal; every bough and twig is strung
   with ice-beads, frozen dew-drops, and the whole tree sparkles
   cold and white, like the Shah of Persia’s diamond plume. Then
   the wind waves the branches, and the sun comes out and turns
   all those myriads of beads and drops to prisms, that glow and
   hum and flash with all manner of colored fires, which change
   and change again, with inconceivable rapidity, from blue to
   red, from red to green, and green to gold; the tree becomes a
   sparkling fountain, a very explosion of dazzling jewels; and it
   stands there the acme, the climax, the supremest possibility
   in art or nature of bewildering, intoxicating, intolerable
   magnificence!--SAMUEL L. CLEMENS.

    (1476)


   =Icebergs=--See GRAVITATION AND ICEBERGS.


                         IDEAL, DEVOTION TO AN

   “It is not our aim to shine in the art of acting; that would
   be presumptuous and ridiculous in simple country people; but
   it must be the earnest desire of each one to try and represent
   worthily this most holy mystery.”

   Thus spoke Pastor Daisenberger in his sermon to the peasant
   actors of Ober-Ammergau before the production of the Passion
   Play in 1870. In these simple, devout words of their minister,
   Archdeacon Farrar found the echo of the deeply religious feeling
   which animates the peasants of the Bavarian village, to which so
   many of the sordid outer world have thronged. There is no taint
   of commercialism nor worldly ambition, we are assured, in the
   hearts of these peasant actors. Time and again have they refused
   lucrative offers to produce their historic drama elsewhere;
   and they do not, it is said, yield to the temptation to extort
   money from the tourists who invariably flock to witness the
   performance. Even the recent floods have given proof how they
   can bear adversity.

    (1477)

                         See TYPES, DISTINCT.


                              IDEAL, THE

   A certain congregation could not find a pastor. They knew what
   they wanted. He must be a sound and able theologian, a literary
   man, up in science, polished to the last degree, good-looking,
   genial, a mixer, sympathetic, a hustler, not heady, humble
   minded, etc. A visiting minister, who knows them, told this
   story:

   “A certain gentleman came to a horse-dealer and gave the
   following order: ‘I want a young horse with spirit and speed
   in him--something I’d like to drive myself for my wives and
   daughters. He must be entirely without blemish and work in
   single or double harness. He must be a perfect carriage-horse,
   and also good under the saddle, with several gaits. And he must
   be absolutely afraid of nothing.’

   “‘Ah, I see--I see,’ replied the dealer. ‘You want a hoss
   without a speck on him; mettlesome, but gentle; young, but
   easily governed; guaranteed not to shy at anything; perfect any
   way you want to use him, in single or double harness, or as a
   saddle-hoss, with all the gaits.’

   “‘Yes, yes,’ interrupted the gentleman, ‘that’s what I want
   exactly.’

   “‘My friend,’ answered the dealer, ‘there ain’t no sich hoss!’”

   The congregation doubtless caught the point.--_Presbyterian of
   the South._

    (1478)

   See BEING BEFORE DOING.


                         IDEAL, THE, ATTEMPTED

   Delos was a small but very celebrated island near the center
   of the Egean Sea. It was a sacred island, devoted to religious
   rites, and all contention, and violence, and, so far as
   possible, all suffering and death, were excluded from it. The
   sick were removed from it; the dead were not buried there; armed
   ships and armed men laid aside their hostility to each other
   when they approached it. All was an enchanting picture of peace
   and happiness upon its shores. In the center of the island was a
   large natural fountain, from which issued a fertilizing stream;
   a populous city stood near the port, and the whole island was
   adorned with temples and palaces of magnificence.

Such an island might our world be were it not for sin and its ravages;
were war no more, and were the Fountain of Life permitted to water it.
(Text.)

    (1479)


   =Idealism and the Practical Life=--See PRACTICAL, THE.


                                IDEALS

    What should we do in this world of ours,
      Were it not for the dreams ahead?
    For thorns are mixed with the blooming flowers,
      No matter which path we tread.

    And each of us has his golden goal,
      Stretching far into the years;
    And ever he climbs with a hopeful soul,
      With alternate smiles and tears.

    To some it’s a dream of high estate,
      To some it’s a dream of wealth,
    To some it’s a dream of a truce with fate
      In a constant search for health.

    To some it’s a dream of home and wife,
      To some it’s a crown above;
    The dreams ahead are what make each life--
      The dreams--and faith--and love!

    (1480)

   See ASPIRATION.


                          IDEALS AND PROGRESS

   The Israelites were urged by the voice of God at the Red Sea to
   go forward. But they were not left without inspiring motives.
   There was a “promised land,” and to the hope of this Moses could
   appeal.

Man has not reached a very high life until he can look on to future
achievement and blessing, and find in these his highest incentive to go
on.

    (1481)


   =Ideas Arousing Genius=--See AROUSEMENT BY A THOUGHT.


   =Ideas, Great, Honored=--See MONUMENTS, MEANING OF.


                         IDEAS GUIDING ACTIONS

   Logical ideas are like keys which are shaping with reference to
   opening a lock. Pike, separated by a glass partition from the
   fish upon which they ordinarily prey, will--so it is said--butt
   their heads against the glass until it is literally beaten into
   them that they can not get at their food. Animals learn (when
   they learn at all) by a “cut and try” method; by doing at random
   first one thing and another thing and then preserving the things
   that happen to succeed. Action directed consciously by ideas--by
   suggested meanings accepted for the sake of experimenting with
   them--is the sole alternative both to bull-headed stupidity
   and to learning bought from that dear teacher--chance
   experience.--JOHN DEWEY, “How We Think.”

    (1482)


                            IDEAS, POWER OF

   The soul, which vivifies, moves, and supports the body, is a
   more potent substance than the hard bones and heavy flesh which
   it vitalizes. A ten-pound weight falling on your head affects
   you unpleasantly as substance, much more so than a leaf of
   the New Testament, if dropt in the same direction; but there
   is a way in which a page of the New Testament may fall upon a
   nation and split it, or infuse itself into its bulk and give
   it strength and permanence. We should be careful, therefore,
   what test we adopt in order to decide the relative stability of
   things.

   Every house, workshop, church, school-room, atheneum, theater,
   is the representative of an opinion. What the eye sees of them
   is built of bricks, iron, wood, and mortar by carpenters,
   smiths, and masons; but the seed from which they grew and
   the forces by which they are upheld are ideas, affections,
   conceptions of utility, sentiments of worship. Strike these out
   of a people’s mind and heart, and its homes, temples, colleges,
   and art-rooms fall away, like the trunk of the oak when its
   life-power is smitten, and only the bald, sandy surface of
   savage life remains.--THOMAS STARR KING.

    (1483)


   =Ideas, Worthless=--See DISAPPOINTMENT.


                            IDENTIFICATION

Here is an imitation of Jesus that is worth while. Of Himself He said:
“He calleth His own sheep by name”:

   Mr. Wanamaker always remembers the men, women, and children of
   Bethany (Sunday-school and church) in his absences. He carries
   a little book in which are written the names and addresses of
   the 1,100 members of the brotherhood, nearly all the 5,400
   Sunday-school children, and nearly all of the 3,600 members
   of the church. These names are arranged alphabetically, and
   each day when he is traveling he sits down with his book and,
   beginning the first day with the letter A, utters each name
   aloud and repeats to himself the individual circumstances of
   each in which prayer and help are otherwise needed. He continues
   this daily until he has exhausted the list. His idea in doing
   this is to recall to his mental vision the face of each. “And
   thus,” said the one who told me this, “no wonder Mr. Wanamaker
   knows us all by name, calls us all by our first names--Tom and
   Harry and Jim--and remembers the particular troubles or joys of
   each.” (Text.)--_The Christian Herald._

    (1484)


   =Identification, Descriptive=--See INDIVIDUALITY.


                         IDENTIFICATION MARKS

There are men as well as garments whom it would be difficult to
identify if they were to be (morally) cleansed.

   In foreign countries some strange methods are adopted for
   identifying the contents of the wash-tub. In some parts of
   France linen is defaced with the whole name and address of the
   laundry stamped upon it, and an additional geometrical design
   to indicate the owner of the property. In Bavaria every patron
   of the wash-tub has a number stamped in large characters on his
   linen. In Bulgaria every laundry has a large number of stamps
   engraved with designs, and in Russia the laundries mark linen
   with threads worked in arrow shapes. In some Russian towns
   the police periodically issue regulations for laundries. In
   Odessa books of marks are furnished annually to the laundry
   proprietors, and these marks and no others can be used to
   identify them.--Albany _Journal_.

    (1485)


                               IDLENESS

Says George S. Hilliard:

   The ruin of most men dates from some vacant hour. Occupation
   is the armor of the soul, and the train of idleness is borne
   up by all the vices. I remember a satirical poem in which the
   devil is represented as fishing for men and adapting his bait to
   the taste and temperament of his prey; but the idler, he said,
   pleased him most, because he bit the naked hook.

    (1486)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Killing time? I would as soon think of cutting an angel’s
   throat that I met on God’s highway, coming straight from His
   throne. Pleasure-mongering! Somebody to entertain them! As if
   life were a cheese and men were maggots boring in it! Are there
   not thousands of foreigners asking to be taught? Are not the
   Spaniards knocking at our door, asking us to organize for them
   a school of morals, a Bible school, a school of religion, a
   school of patriotism, on Sunday afternoon? Are there not social
   settlements that ask for hundreds of workers and teachers? How
   would it look if a regiment of soldiers at a critical moment
   at Gettysburg had sat down on the grass and looked for a cool
   tree and paid some man to come in with a jew’s-harp and play to
   them, while the struggle for liberty went on? (Text.)--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (1487)


   =Idol-worship=--See FETISHISM.


   =Idols Destroyed=--See RENUNCIATION, COMPLETE.


                      IDOLS IN CHRISTIAN SERVICE

   Havelock, the English general in India, once held a wonderful
   prayer-meeting in the idol temple at Rangoon. In the hand
   of each of the idol gods that lined the sides of the great
   apartment, his men put a torch, and by the light of these
   torches in the idols’ hands they held their worship.

   (1488)


                               IGNORANCE

The contrast between heathen and civilized men is indicated by this
incident:

   “Why did we not think of heating the hard stuff,” the natives
   exclaimed when they saw the welding of iron, “instead of beating
   it with stones?”

    (1489)

       *       *       *       *       *

However wise a man may himself be, he does well to guard himself
against the ignorance of others:

   Ah Wing Lee was walking down the street the other morning when a
   dog ran up behind him, yelping and barking horribly. The end of
   the Celestial’s pigtail rose in the breeze as he leapt aside in
   great alarm.

   A benevolent passer-by, seeing the terror painted upon the
   yellow countenance, hastened to pat him reassuringly on the
   shoulder.

   “Come, come, my friend, you need not be afraid. The dog won’t
   hurt you. Don’t you know the old proverb, ‘A barking dog never
   bites?’ Surely you--”

   “That’s all velly good,” interrupted Ah Wing doubtfully; “you
   knowee ploverb and me knowee ploverb, but do the dog knowee
   ploverb?” (Text.)

    (1490)

       *       *       *       *       *

Stauber, the Lutheran minister who first ministered to the five
villages in the Swiss mountains, which he afterward persuaded Oberlin
to take as his parish, tells this incident to show the character of the
people:

   The Ban de la Roche, as you may know, is on a spur of the Vosges
   Mountains about twelve leagues from Strasburg. The people are
   very wild and ignorant. When I (Monsieur Stauber) first went
   there I visited the only school. A number of children were
   gathered together in a miserable cottage. As I entered I heard
   an appalling noise of scuffling, quarreling, and shouting.

   “‘Silence, children, silence!’ I cried. ‘Where is your master?’
   One of the children pointed to a little old man who was lying on
   a bed in the corner of the room.

   “‘Are you the master of this school?’ said I, in some dismay.

   “‘Yes, I be the master, sir--I be.’

   “‘Humph! But don’t you teach the children anything?’

   “‘No! I don’t teach the children nothing--for a good reason.’

   “‘It must be a very good reason, indeed. What is it, my friend?’

   “‘Well, I don’t know nothing myself, sir; so how am I to teach?’

   “‘But, my good friend, why did they send you here, then?’

   “‘Because, sir, I be too old to take care of the pigs?’”

    (1491)

       *       *       *       *       *

   An English army officer and a foreign missionary met on an ocean
   steamer. The army officer contemptuously said he had lived
   in India thirty years and had never seen a native Christian.
   Shortly afterward, he recited with gusto his success in
   tiger-hunting, declaring that he had killed no less than nine
   tigers. “Pardon me,” said the missionary, “did I understand you
   to say that you have killed nine tigers in India?” “Yes, sir,”
   pompously replied the colonel. “Now that is remarkable,” replied
   the missionary, “for I have lived in India thirty years and have
   never seen a tiger.” “Perhaps, sir,” sneered the colonel, “you
   didn’t go where the tigers were.” “Precisely,” was the bland
   answer of the missionary, “and may not that have been the reason
   why you never saw any native converts?”

    (1492)

       *       *       *       *       *

   An Italian tailor living at West Hoboken, N. J., appeared before
   Judge Carey and made application for citizenship. He told the
   judge he had been in this country twenty-two years.

   “Do you know who Abraham Lincoln was?” asked Judge Carey.

   “No, I don’t know who he was.”

   “You don’t know who Abraham Lincoln was?” repeated the judge.

   “No; does he live in West Hoboken?” asked the applicant.

   “He is dead,” said Judge Carey.

   “Well, I never heard of him,” continued the Italian. “Was he a
   tailor?”

   The judge advised him to go home and study up on history and
   geography, and said: “No man who does not know who Abraham
   Lincoln was is fit to enjoy the privilege of American
   citizenship.”

   When asked to name six of the United States, he answered, “New
   Jersey, New York, Boston, West Hoboken, Union Hill, and Hoboken.”

    (1493)

       *       *       *       *       *

   One day recently a hard-working woman, the wife of a New York
   tailor in a small way, went out to market. In her hurry she left
   the apartment door ajar. Moreover, she forgot to replace, under
   the mattress, the red-flannel bag in which she and her husband
   kept their savings of fifteen years--some diamonds, a gold
   watch, and $1,400 cash.

   Only a quarter of an hour later she came back--but the
   red-flannel savings-bank was gone. At last reports the police
   detectives had not recovered the money.

   The pity of such a loss is more than personal. It is a national
   calamity. The vague distrust of all banks follows the popular
   ignorance of the difference in nature between a business man’s
   bank and a true savings-bank. Ignorance was the root of this
   small tragedy.--_Review of Reviews._

    (1494)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Many of us are as foolish as a poor immigrant who was discovered
   walking on the tracks of the Lehigh Valley Railroad in New
   Jersey. On his back he carried a huge package containing
   household utensils, as well as clothes. He seemed tired, tho he
   trudged sturdily on. He had not, however, acquired the veteran
   tramp’s skill in walking on the ties, and his journey was
   evidently telling on his physical powers more than the same
   distance by the roadway would have done. An agent stopt him and
   ordered him off the track, telling him that he was liable to
   arrest for trespass, besides incurring the risk of being killed
   by a train.

   The man, who was a Hungarian, demurred, and produced a railroad
   ticket, good from Jersey City to Scranton, Pa. The agent looked
   at him in amazement, and asked why he was walking when he might
   ride. The Hungarian replied that he thought the ticket gave
   him only the privilege of walking over the road. His right was
   explained to him, and the tired man delightedly boarded the
   first train that stopt. (Text.)--LOUIS ALBERT BANKS.

    (1495)

   See CHRISTIANITY AND CIVILIZATION; FEAR.


                          IGNORANCE, DIETARY

   The untrained housekeeper is responsible for the sheer waste of
   one-fifth of the average salary--wasted because she does not
   know how to buy her foods, in quantity or quality; because she
   has not known what kind of foods to give to produce the best
   results; because, as a bargain-hunter, she is the cause of the
   great quantities of “material just like the goods, but at a
   cheaper price” which flood our markets and lack durability.

   No man would employ a purchasing agent who did not know the
   materials he was to buy; yet woman, with the greatest purchasing
   power, goes at it without knowledge.

   We find that the majority of young men in the universities
   who go wrong are of those who live in boarding-houses where
   landladies know little of the choosing and preparing of foods.
   An inadequate lunch is followed by hunger during the middle of
   the afternoon, with the resultant glass of beer to satisfy the
   appetite for the time being.

    (1496)


                      IGNORANCE, DISADVANTAGE OF

   Frederick of Prussia had a great mania for enlisting gigantic
   soldiers into the Royal Guards, and paid an enormous bounty to
   his recruiting officers for getting them. One day the recruiting
   sergeant chanced to espy a Hibernian who was at least seven
   feet high. He accosted him in English and proposed that he
   should enlist. The idea of a military life and a large bounty so
   delighted Patrick that he at once consented.

   “But unless you can speak German the king will not give you so
   much.”

   “Oh, be jabbers,” said the Irishman; “sure it’s I that don’t
   know a word of German.”

   “But,” said the sergeant, “I know you can learn in a short
   time. The king knows every man in the guards. As soon as he
   sees you he will ride up and ask you how old you are; you will
   say, ‘twenty-seven years’; next, how long you have been in the
   service; you must reply, ‘three weeks’; finally, if you are
   provided with clothes and rations; you answer, ‘both.’”

   Pat soon learned to pronounce his answers, but never dreamed of
   learning the questions.

   In three weeks he appeared before the king in review. His
   Majesty rode up to him. Paddy stept forward with “present arms!”

   “How long have you been in the service,” said the king.

   “Twenty-seven years,” said the Irishman.

   “How old are you?” asked his Majesty.

   “Three weeks,” said the Irishman.

   “Am I or you a fool?” roared the king.

   “Both,” replied Patrick, who was instantly taken to the
   guard-house, but pardoned by the king after he understood the
   facts of the case.--_Judge’s Magazine._

    (1497)


                       IGNORANCE, HUMILIATION OF

An incident in a trial for a capital offense, in Nashville, Tenn., is
thus spoken of in a news item:

   A splendid, clean-looking young man was under examination
   and Mr. Fitzhugh, of Memphis, of the prosecution, got to the
   point of asking him which newspapers he had read at the time
   of the Carmack killing. The talesman had testified that he
   was thirty-one years old, a farmer, and the father of three
   children. His answers had been bright and his face sparkled with
   intelligence. But he hesitated when the interrogation concerning
   the newspapers was put to him.

   “I haven’t read any about it in the newspapers. We don’t take
   any newspapers in our house. I--I kain’t read and I kain’t
   write, but I can farm. I never got the show to go to school but
   two or three days in all my life.”

   A blush mantled his cheeks and for an instant there was a
   glistening in his eyes, then, throwing back his head, he left
   the witness-stand and marched out of the court-room, his
   expression of defiance silencing the laughter of the unthinking
   ones in the crowd. And this was only one of more than a score
   of examples of illiteracy.

How many a life is thus handicapped. It is not a commendation of
parenthood that the child should thus be distinguished against in this
age of widespread learning. On the other hand, all honor is to be given
to the man who through diligent application in after life is able to
surmount the difficulty of scanty knowledge.

    (1498)


                          IGNORANCE IS BLISS

It is sometimes best not to alarm persons in peril by revealing the
danger, as is illustrated by the Rev. Asa Bullard in the following
incident:

   On our way down the Ohio River one day, in a thunder-shower, my
   brother requested me to remind him on reaching Cincinnati to
   reveal a secret to me. That secret was, as I learned on reaching
   the city, that we were then sitting directly over several
   casks, not of whisky, but of gunpowder! He was acquainted with
   some of the officials of the steamer, and tho it was unlawful
   to carry that article on the boat, they had told him of the
   fact. When asked why he had seated himself in such a dangerous
   place, his reply was that “if the boat should be struck by
   lightning, or if for any cause the powder should be exploded, we
   were probably as safe there as we should be in any part of the
   steamer.”--“Incidents in a Busy Life.”

    (1499)


   =Ignorance Mystified=--See ENLIGHTENMENT.


   =Ignorance of Money=--See MONEY, IGNORANCE OF.


                    IGNORANCE OF ORIGIN AND DESTINY

   We know no more of our beginning and end, of what preceded
   the one and will round off the other, than King Alfred did.
   “Our life,” said he to his nobles one evening, as they were
   sitting beside the great fireplace, “is something that is
   bounded by impenetrable obscurity. A little bird flies from
   the darkness of the outside night into the brightness of this
   room, flutters a minute or two in the warmth and light, and then
   flies through the opposite window into the night once more.”
   Nearly two thousand years have gone by since Alfred delivered
   himself of this fable, but the centuries have brought us no new
   wisdom.--San Francisco _Chronicle_.

    (1500)

   See UNKNOWN REALITIES.


                       IGNORANCE, PALLIATIONS OF

In “Gloria Christi,” we read the following:

   The change in methods inaugurated by modern medicine in Syria
   is shown by an anecdote. It is said that once when Dr. Jesup
   was visiting Beirut, a native doctor asked him for an American
   newspaper. He secured it, and some days after came back for
   another. “What do you do with them?” asked Mr. Jesup. “Oh,” he
   said, “I tear them in pieces, soak them in water, and feed them
   in oil to my patients. It cures them all right!”

The palliatives of ignorance everywhere abound. As they are in
medicine, so they are in morals.

    (1501)


                        IGNORANCE, THE COST OF

   The tree-butcher ruined many valuable shade-trees last fall
   (1909) and it is hoped that he will find steady employment at
   some other kind of work before spring arrives. Shade-trees
   are usually pruned by some one temporarily out of employment.
   His only qualification is the possession of an ax and saw. He
   needs work, so he finds some property owner who has some nice
   shade-trees and importunes him to have them cut back. The owner
   consents. The axman is to receive so much for the job and the
   wood the limbs make. The workingman at once sees that it is to
   his advantage to cut the limbs off close to the trunk of the
   tree, because he can complete the job quicker with no dangerous
   climbing, and by so doing he gets more wood. Consequently, the
   tree is ruined. Shade-trees should be trimmed up when young, so
   the top will be at least twelve feet above the walk. After this
   all that is necessary is to cut out the dead and superfluous
   branches.--CHARLES C. DEAM, Secretary Board of Forestry.

    (1502)


                              ILLITERACY

   While a policeman was covering his beat near Delaware Avenue and
   Dickinson Street, says the Philadelphia _Times_, he came
   across a dead dog.

   Taking out his book and pencil, he wrote the following:

   “Dead dog at Delaware Avenue and Dick----” and stopt.

   Picking up the dog by its tail, the policeman carried it to
   Tasker Street, where he dropt it. Here he took his pencil and
   book out again and wrote:

   “Dead dog at Delaware Avenue and Tasker Street.”

   A passer-by asked the policeman what made him carry the dog to
   Tasker Street, to which he replied:

   “Well, I couldn’t spell Dickinson, so I took the cur a square
   down to an easier street.”

    (1503)


                   ILL-FORTUNE BECOMING GOOD-FORTUNE

   An Australian miner had reached the very last of his resources
   without finding a speck of gold, and there was nothing for
   him to do but to turn back on the morrow, while a mouthful of
   food was left, and retrace his steps as best he might do to
   the nearest port. He flung down his tools in despair that last
   night, and staggered over the two or three miles of desert to
   the camp-fire. Next morning, early, after a great deal of sleep
   and very little food, he braced himself up to go back for his
   tools, knowing that they might bring the price of a meal or two
   when it came to the last. As he stumbled back that hot morning
   the way seemed very long, for his heart was too heavy to carry.
   At last he saw his wheelbarrow and pick standing upon the flat
   plain a little way off, and was wearily dragging on toward them,
   when he caught his toe against a stone deeply embedded in the
   sand, and fell down. This was the last straw that broke the
   camel’s back. He lay there and curst his luck bitterly, to think
   that he should nearly break his toe against the only stone in
   the whole district after all his failure to find gold. He felt
   like a passionate child who kicks and breaks the thing which has
   hurt him, and he had to beat that stone before he could feel
   quiet. It was too firm in the sand for his hands to get it up;
   so in his rage he dug it up with his pick, intending to smash
   it; but it would not smash, for it was solid gold, and nearly as
   big as a baby’s head. (Text.)--LOUIS ALBERT BANKS.

    (1504)


                               ILL LUCK

There was a man during the reign of Kaiser Otho, who wore puffed
breeches. Puffed breeches then were filled with flour, and when the
wearer of the breeches sat down on a seat he sat down on a nail, and
the nail tore the breeches and the rent emitted three pecks of flour.
Why he should have sat down at that particular time, and in that
particular place, is a mystery; and why there should have been a nail
there, is to me an inscrutable mystery; but there is the fact, and the
sufferer I consider an ill-used man.--GEORGE DAWSON.

    (1505)


                             ILL-PAID WORK

   Generally, good, useful work, whether of the hand or head, is
   either ill-paid, or not paid at all. I don’t say it should be
   so, but it always is so. People, as a rule, only pay for being
   amused or being cheated, not for being served. Five thousand
   a year to your talker, and a shilling a day to your fighter,
   digger, and thinker, is the rule. None of the best head work in
   art, literature, or science is ever paid for. How much do you
   think Homer got for his “Iliad?” or Dante for his “Paradise?”
   Only bitter bread and salt, and going up and down other people’s
   stairs. In science, the man who discovered the telescope, and
   first saw heaven, was paid with a dungeon; the man who invented
   the microscope, and first saw earth, died of starvation, driven
   from his home. Baruch, the scribe, did not get a penny a line
   for writing Jeremiah’s second roll for him, I fancy; and St.
   Stephen did not get bishop’s pay for that long sermon of his
   to the Pharisees; nothing but stones. For, indeed, that is the
   world-father’s proper payment.--JOHN RUSKIN.

    (1506)


                             ILLUMINATION

The _Railway and Locomotive Engineering_ says:

   Some of the principal requirements of a locomotive headlight are
   that the light from it shall be powerful enough to illuminate
   the track far enough ahead to permit of an emergency stop;
   that the light shall not be so brilliant as to cause temporary
   blindness or bewilderment in those upon whom it falls; that in
   the matter of signal observance it must not alter or modify the
   colors of the lesser lights which come into its field, and that
   it shall be as effective a form of light as can be devised for
   foggy or snowy weather.

    (1507)

When Moses returned from communion with God his face shone so brightly
that a veil was needed. There was another transfiguration which is
the result not of glory reflected but of grace transfused. “Be ye
transformed (lit. transfigured) by the renewing of your mind,” says the
apostle.

   The visitor to the beautiful church of St. Paul without the
   walls at Rome is sure to be asked by the sacristans to notice
   the wonderful columns of pure alabaster which are among the
   splendors of that edifice. The guide brings a lighted taper
   which he places behind one of these massive pillars. The
   translucent alabaster immediately glows with the light that
   seems to play all through it with lambent effulgence. The solid
   mass glorifies the flame, as the flame illumines the solid
   substance. (Text.)

    (1508)

   See LIGHT.


                          ILLUSION, SPIRITUAL

Worldly men on first coming into the spiritual life often misjudge
the values and dimensions of Christian realities. Only long Christian
experience enables men to get the right perspective of Christian
realities.

   If you have always lived in valleys or near the sea level, then
   you have always been viewing distant objects through a dusty or
   vaporous atmosphere. If you should go to a mountainous region
   or an elevated plateau, you would suffer great illusion as to
   distances. As you would still have the mental standards of the
   lowlands, very distant objects would seem to be quite near.
   You would travel all day to reach a mountain that seems but an
   hour’s walk away.

    (1509)


                           ILLUSIONS, MORAL

   A celebrated naturalist tells us that one day he saw a bird
   drowning in a lake, and he felt sure that the bird had mistaken
   the water for the sky; it was a bright, transparent day, the
   clear, calm lake reflected the sky and the whole landscape in
   its depths, and the bird, not discerning that the world below
   it was a world of shadows, was betrayed to its doom. So all
   the glories of the upper world appear inverted in the world
   of evil. The lofty, the pure, the beautiful, the bright, are
   all seductively reflected in the depths of Satan; they are
   exaggerated there, they are seen in surpassing magnitude and
   splendor; error seems some nobler truth, disobedience some
   larger liberty, forbidden things seem the sweetest flowers and
   mellowest fruits of paradise.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The
   Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (1510)


                          ILLUSIONS, OPTICAL

   On the chalk downs of Wiltshire, in sight of the town of
   Westbury, there appears a great white horse, which presumably
   marks the sight of one of the battles between Alfred the Great
   and the Danes. As you look at that white horse upon the hill
   from the road approaching it it is perfectly drawn--it is so
   accurate that I doubt if any painter of a horse could improve
   upon it; but some time ago when I was in that neighborhood, I
   went up to the white horse to see it on the spot. There I found
   that this cutting in the green turf which revealed the chalk
   below was so extensive that if I walked round the outline, I
   could cover about a mile, and the shape as it lay along the
   slope of the hill had no resemblance to a horse whatever. Like
   the long shadows cast by the setting sun, its sprawling limbs
   went down the hill, and were so much greater than the width of
   the body that you could not have told in walking over it that
   the artist--for an artist he was--who designed it could possibly
   intend to be drawing a horse; that perfect horse upon the
   hillside, to the traveler approaching from Westbury, appeared
   to have no existence at all--it was a great perspective drawing
   upon the hill, which, when seen close at hand, did not even
   suggest a horse’s form. Taking that as an illustration, does it
   not often strike you how the whole pageant of earth and sky,
   which delights our eye, is just as unreal as the scenery of the
   stage? Those clouds that drape the setting sun, and form lofty
   mountains and shimmering seas, making a landscape in the sky so
   beautiful that no painter on earth could reproduce it; those
   clouds that charm us with their beauty, if we were in the midst
   of them, would be merely like the drenching rain of an April
   day, without beauty, without charm. And those starry heavens
   which are to us all of the earth a subject of endless delight
   because of their beauty and their incomparable grandeur, are
   not in the least what they appear.--ROBERT F. HORTON,
   _Christian World Pulpit_.

    (1511)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The other day I came across the letter which Galileo wrote to
   Kepler, when he was afraid to publish the discoveries which had
   been made by the first telescope, and he uses this extraordinary
   language: “Fearing the fate of our master Copernicus, who, altho
   he has earned immortal fame among a few, yet, by an infinite
   number, so only can the number of fools be measured, is hissed
   and derided.” It was a peril in the seventeenth century even
   to say what those starry heavens are. They have no relation
   at all to the objects that we see. That little group of the
   Pleiades, which look like fireflies hung in a net in the sky,
   in which a very keen eye can perceive seven distinct stars, is
   really a group of between 400 and 500 suns, many of them larger
   than our own. And that genial sun himself, whose light we love,
   which gives to our planet its life, its warmth and its joy--if
   we could approach it would terrify us the more we approached
   it--a mighty mass of incandescent matter so awful that the
   imagination dare hardly entertain the reality of what it is. It
   may be said, however, that while these distant objects of the
   universe possibly mislead us, our eyes at any rate can trust the
   things which are close at hand. But that is quite a delusion,
   too. The matter which is close at hand, and which our fathers
   thirty years ago treated as the one certainty in the world, is
   a complete illusion. I took up in my hand some time ago a few
   grains of dried mud from a river-bed. To all appearance they
   were like grains of gunpowder, but they were put under the
   microscope, and there to my amazement every one of these tiny
   grains was a shell, as beautiful and as perfect in form as a
   nautilus sailing upon the sea. Not only does the matter we see
   delude us, but the delusion is greater from the fact of what we
   do not see. Now, the physicist seriously tells us he is using
   the strict language of science, and not the language of a fairy
   tale, when he says that all the matter we touch, including our
   own bodies, is made up of molecules, and the molecule is made
   up of atoms, an atom far too minute for the eye to see; and yet
   that atom, of which all matter is built up, is itself composed
   of electrons, so minute that they dart with inconceivable
   velocity from end to end of that tiny atom like a mouse in a
   great cathedral--such is the proportion of the electron to
   the atom.--ROBERT F. HORTON, _The Christian World
   Pulpit_.

    (1512)


                      ILLUSTRATIONS FROM CANDLES

Mr. Spurgeon had occasion, some time ago, says the Hartford
_Courant_, to speak to a company of theological students on the
importance of using illustrations in preaching.

   A student observed that they found it difficult to get
   illustrations, whereupon Mr. Spurgeon remarked that
   illustrations enough might be found in a tallow candle. This
   was regarded as an extravagance of speech, whereupon the great
   preacher prepared a lecture to show what might be illustrated by
   candles. In delivering his lecture he used candles of various
   sizes and colors, together with lanterns and other suitable
   apparatus. A nicely japanned but shut-up box filled with fine
   unused candles illustrated an idle and spiritless church.
   Several colossal and highly-colored but unlit candles were
   shown, and with them a tiny rushlight shining as best it could.
   The big, handsome, unlit candles might be archbishops or doctors
   of divinity, or other persons of culture without piety, and the
   bright rushlight might be some poor boy in a workshop whose
   life is beautiful. Mr. Spurgeon showed an unlighted candle in
   a splendid silver candlestick, and then a brightly burning one
   stuck in a ginger-beer bottle. He showed what a few people might
   do by combining their good efforts, by exhibiting the combined
   light of twelve candles. The folly of trying to light a candle
   with the extinguisher still on was shown, and the dark-lantern
   illustrated the care of people who make no effort to let their
   light shine before men. The lecturer then placed a candle under
   a bushel, and afterward placed the bushel-measure under the
   candle--the point of which was obvious. In snuffing a candle he
   extinguished it, and remarked that Christians often did a like
   mischief by unwise rebukes and criticisms. The folly of burning
   the candle at both ends was illustrated. The last illustration
   was a number of lighted candles of various hues placed together
   on one stand, representing the Church’s true diversity in unity,
   all the different branches burning from one stem, and for one
   purpose. Some one in the audience asked if the “dips” did not
   give the best light, whereupon Mr. Spurgeon said he was not sure
   of that, and thought many of the “dips” would be the better for
   another dipping.

The man of genius can find illustrations in common things--sermons in
stones or in candles. Every preacher should work these mines of natural
analogies.

    (1513)


                      ILLUSTRATIONS IN PREACHING

   A good illustration is the most powerful “motor” ever invented;
   it will drag a whole congregation which has drifted into
   infinite space back again to earth in a twinkling. It comes
   like a sweet sea-breeze blowing in through the church windows
   on a hot Sunday, and relaxing the feverish tension of crowded
   worship.--MACKAY SMITH, _Harper’s Magazine_.

    (1514)


                        ILLUSTRATIONS, STRIKING

   Colonel Zell, at the time when Grant was up for the Presidency,
   and when the Democratic watchword was, “Anything to beat Grant,”
   was addressing an enthusiastic meeting of Republicans, when
   a Democrat sang out, “It’s easy talkin’, colonel; but we’ll
   show you something next fall.” The colonel was a great admirer
   of Grant. He at once wheeled about and with uplifted hands,
   hair bristling, and eyes flashing fire, cried out: “Build a
   worm-fence ’round a winter supply of summer weather; catch a
   thunderbolt in a bladder; break a hurricane to harness; hang
   out the ocean on a grapevine to dry; but never, sir, never
   for a moment delude yourself with the idea that you can beat
   Grant.”--_Chambers’s Journal._

    (1515)


   =Image in the Soul=--See RESTORING GOD’S IMAGE.


                        IMAGE OF GOD REPRODUCED

   Star photography is one of the most refined and delicate of the
   arts of modern science. Two factors enter into the production
   of the photo. It is the star which makes the picture, but the
   artist-astronomer is essential also. He has to expose the
   sensitive plate and to direct the telescope to the star, and the
   star by its light does the rest.

So when the gaze of the soul is set on God, He reproduces His own
likeness by His own light. It is ours to point the telescope; His to
paint the picture. (Text.)

    (1516)


   =Imagery=--See EVANGELIZATION.


                          IMAGERY OF THE MIND

   Thought is an artist painting its pictures on the mind, so
   producing its imagery on the walls of one’s immortal nature.
   If evil, the mind becomes a mystic shrine painted with such
   figures as were found in some of the chambers of Pompeii, where
   excavators had to cover up the pictures because they were so
   foul. If good, the mind is like the cells in the convent of San
   Marco, at Florence, where Fra Angelico’s holy genius had painted
   on the bare walls angel imaginings and celestial faces. (Text.)

    (1517)


                              IMAGINATION

   Pure and noble imaginings become a power for good. A healthy
   imagination is a well-spring of pure pleasure, and by reading
   and keeping our eyes open to the world we store our minds with
   pictures which will in after life bring great satisfaction.
   George William Curtis says: “One man goes 4,000 miles to see
   Italy, and does not see it, he is so short-sighted. Another is
   so far-sighted that he stays in his room, and sees more than
   Italy.” We should train our observing faculties to see all of
   the beauty that lies about us, even to those finer tints, which
   it is said only the artist’s eye discerns--“the light that
   never was on sea or land.”--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character
   Lessons.”

    (1518)

   See DREAMS; PANIC THROUGH FEAR.


                       IMAGINATION CAUSING DEATH

   The _British and Colonial Druggist_ discust the death of a
   young woman at Hackney under circumstances in which a certain
   insect powder largely figured. As the powder appeared by Dr.
   Tidy’s experiment to be perfectly harmless, the suggestion
   was not unnaturally made that the deceased, who was possibly
   of a hysterical, highly imaginative turn of mind, took the
   powder in the full belief that by its means her death might
   be accomplished. The writer of the article, we think wrongly,
   brings forward two remarkable instances of what may be regarded
   as practical jokes with melancholy terminations. In the case of
   the convict delivered up to the scientist for the purpose of a
   psychological experiment (the man was strapped to a table and
   blindfolded, ostensibly to be bled to death; a siphon containing
   water was placed near his head and the fluid was allowed to
   trickle audibly into a vessel below it, at the same time that a
   trifling scratch with a needle was inflicted on the culprit’s
   neck; it is said that death occurred at the end of six minutes),
   fear must have played no inconsiderable share in the fatal
   result, and we do not know whether all the vital organs were in
   a sound condition, tho they were presumably so. The old story of
   the case of a college porter is also one in point. The students
   entrapt him into a room at night, a mock inquiry was held, and
   the punishment of death by decapitation decreed for his want
   of consideration to the students. It is small wonder that,
   under the dominion of fear and belief in the earnestness of his
   tormentors, the sight of an ax and a block, with subsequent
   blindfolding and necessary genuflexion, a smart rap with a wet
   towel on the back of his neck should have been followed by the
   picking up of a corpse.--_Lancet._

    (1519)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A Sioux Indian, who had lost a relative by death, vowed to
   kill the first living thing he met. This was once not an
   uncommon practise among our Indians. Issuing from his lodge,
   he chanced to meet a missionary--a man much beloved by all,
   from whom this Indian had received many favors. Unwilling, but
   bound by his vow, he shot his benefactor as he passed. Indian
   usage did not sanction a bloody retribution on the murderer,
   since the obligation of his vow was recognized by all. The
   shaman, however, upbraided him for his act, and pronounced his
   doom, saying: “You will die within the year.” The Indian, tho
   apparently a well man at the time, was seized by a wasting
   disease, and actually did die within the specified time,
   a victim to his own superstitious imagination.--H. W.
   HENSHAW, _The Youth’s Companion_.

    (1520)


                         IMAGINATION, LURE OF

   A certain legend relates that one of the Piscayan mountains is
   accurst, and that Satan dwells there. The grass is withered, a
   sinister hue rests upon everything, the sounds are mournful, the
   mountain stands a dark fantom in the midst of bedecked nature.
   But this is not the method of evil. The mountain up which the
   devil took our Master, and up which he takes us, is bathed in
   purple; in its rocks gleam jewels, its dust is the dust of gold,
   in its clefts spring flowers, and from its crest is seen the
   vision of kingdoms and the glory of them. Things, principles,
   maxims, amusements, relationships, creeds, ideals, utterly base
   and vile, are through the power of imagination purged into the
   lily’s whiteness, perfumed with the violet, steeped in the color
   of the rose. We are never invited to sin; the things which
   have ruined generations are prest upon us as nature, freedom,
   spirit, knowledge, gallantry, beauty, love, and we are deceived
   through the legerdemain of passion and fancy. (Text.)--W. L.
   WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (1521)


                               IMITATION

Some men try to imitate good character as precious stones are imitated,
according to this description:

   The trade in artificial precious stones has become quite
   important, and the manufacture of them has reached a
   considerable degree of perfection. The products of some of the
   shops would almost deceive an expert, but the test of hardness
   is still infallible. The beautiful “French paste,” from which
   imitation diamonds are made, is a kind of glass with a mixture
   of oxide of lead. The more of the latter the brighter the stone,
   but also the softer, and this is a serious defect. The imitation
   stones are now so perfectly made and are so satisfactory to
   those who are not very particular, that their influence begins
   to be felt in the market for real stones. By careful selection
   of the ingredients and skill and attention in manipulation,
   the luster, color, fire and water of the choicest stones are,
   to the eyes of laymen, fully reproduced.--_Popular Science
   Monthly._

    (1522)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Imitation, as we see it in man, seems to extend over a wider
   range of action and production than in any other animal. It
   is not confined, as in the monkeys, to the production of like
   attitudes or bodily acts; it is not confined, as in the birds,
   to the imitation of sounds; it includes all alike, and is
   characterized, furthermore, by conscious pleasure in the doing.
   Every one who has observed children knows the keen delight with
   which they first perceive the likeness between two things; that
   to recognize in a picture a thing which they have actually seen
   is a distinct enjoyment; that in the same way the second telling
   of a story, or the second playing of a game, seems to give an
   additional and independent pleasure to the child. And so with
   ignorant people when they look at pictures, the great, if not
   the only source of pleasure seems to be the detecting of the
   likeness to something they know. After the artists of Greece
   and Rome had reached their highest levels and done their best
   work, the critic of art found in the exactness of the likeness
   one of the highest, perhaps the highest element of excellence.
   The birds that flew to the grapes of Zeuxis, the horse that
   neighed to the painted horse of Apelles, the painted curtain of
   Parasius that deceived Zeuxis himself--these seemed to Pliny,
   and, I suppose, to the ancient world generally, to be the
   highest tributes to the excellence of the artists.--Lord Justice
   FRY, _Contemporary Review_.

    (1523)

Our evil deeds as well as our good ones will be imitated, often to our
own undoing as in the following incident:

   The _Green Bag_ tells of an experience which Nathaniel
   Whitmore, a prominent Maine lawyer, had with a student who was
   graduated from his office. When Mr. Whitmore was past sixty this
   young man started practise in a neighboring town; and the older
   lawyer gave him charge, as agent, of certain property situated
   in the town where his former clerk was practising. Everything
   was drawn up in legal form, and the young man fulfilled his
   duties most satisfactorily. The rents came regularly, together
   with full accounts of repairs, which were much less than
   formerly; tenants were satisfied; the property never paid so
   well before, and Mr. Whitmore was well pleased. Then came a
   brief letter stating that the property had been sold for taxes.
   Dumfounded, Mr. Whitmore hastened to his agent to demand what
   this meant. “How does this happen that I am sold out for taxes?”
   he asked. “There was nothing in the agreement about taxes,”
   explained the young man, handing to his former client the signed
   agreement. “Had taxes been mentioned, I should have paid them.”
   “Who bought the houses?” the elder man asked, with a shade of
   amusement in his tone, as a light began to dawn on his mind.
   “I did,” replied the young man, modestly. “The devil you did!
   Where did you learn that trick?” asked Mr. Whitmore, now fully
   comprehending the situation. “In your office,” came the answer,
   in the same modest voice. “I look out for a poor client, but a
   rich lawyer can look out for himself.” The two men shook hands
   and changed the subject.

    (1524)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A beautiful statue once stood in the market-place of an Italian
   city. It was the statue of a Greek slave-girl. It represented
   the slave as tidy and well drest. A ragged, uncombed little
   street child, coming across the statue in her play, stopt and
   gazed at it in admiration. She was captivated by it. She gazed
   long and lovingly. Moved by a sudden impulse, she went home and
   washed her face and combed her hair. Another day she stopt again
   before the statue and admired it, and she got a new idea. Next
   day her tattered clothes were washed and mended. Each time she
   looked at the statue she found something in its beauties until
   she was a transformed child.

The history of the Christian religion has been a continuous record of
men transformed by contemplation of the great Example. (Text.)

    (1525)

   See CHRIST INVITING MEN; EXAMPLE, POWER OF.


                         IMITATION DISAPPROVED

   It is no use to try to get another man’s style, or to imitate
   the wit or the mannerisms of another writer. The late Mr.
   Carlyle, for example, did, in my judgment, a considerable
   mischief in his day because he led everybody to write after the
   style of his “French Revolution,” and it became pretty tedious.
   They got over it after a time, however. But it was not a good
   thing. Let every man write in his own style, taking care only
   not to be led into any affectation, but to be perfectly clear,
   perfectly simple.--CHARLES A. DANA.

    (1526)


                           IMITATION OF GOD

    For the Father of all sends sun and rain
      On the good and ill and shows that we,
      If we would his perfect children be,
    Must love not only the good and kind,
      Must teach not only the true and wise,
    But patience must open the eyes of the blind
      And love must conquer her enemies.
    (Text.)--CHARLES WILLIAM PEARSON,
    “A Threefold Cord.”

    (1527)


                          IMITATION OF NATURE

   How far the manual and technical arts of human life owe their
   suggestion and origin to imitation is a point which, so far as
   I know, has not been fully considered. That the first canoe
   was made in imitation of a rotten tree which had served as
   a ferry-boat; that the first pillar was constructed in the
   likeness of an erect tree; that the Gothic arch was made to
   represent the overreaching boughs in some forest glade; that
   the triglyph in the Doric frieze represents the ends of the
   cross-beams which rested on the architrave--all this seems very
   probable, and suggests that further investigation might show
   that to a great degree imitation of the objects of nature, or of
   earlier structures, underlies all the various arts and products
   of human labor.--Lord Justice FRY, _Contemporary
   Review_.

    (1528)

   See NATURE A MODEL.


                           IMMANENCE OF GOD

   But where shall we look for the highest, the most complete and
   perfect revelation of God that the human mind is capable of
   grasping? Grant the truth there is in all the symbols which the
   imagination of men has produced. The earth is like the little
   ball you can hold in your hand. The solar system is like the
   revolving electric lights in the Museum of Natural History. The
   infinite and eternal energy is like the sun radiating light
   and heat and life upon the earth. He is like the flaming fire
   which consumes the evil and purifies the good. He is like the
   wind and like the ocean and like the most beautiful statue that
   art can produce. More than that. God is not only like all these
   symbols; He is in the symbols. God is in the solar system, the
   very life and soul of the universe. God is in the fire that
   consumes and purifies. God is in the flower and the bird and the
   beast.--FRANK O. HALL.

    (1529)

       *       *       *       *       *

The immanence of God is illustrated in these lines from an unidentified
source:

    “Oh, where is the sea?” the fishes cried,
      As they swam the crystal clearness through.
    “We’ve heard from of old of the ocean’s tide,
      And we long to look on the waters blue.
    The wise ones speak of an infinite sea,
    Oh, who can tell us if such there be?”
      The lark flew up in the morning bright,
    And sung and balanced on sunny wings;
      And this was its song: “I see the light,
    I look on a world of beautiful things;
      But flying and singing everywhere,
      In vain I have searched to find the air.”

    (1530)


   =Immensity of Space Reveals God=--See CONVERTED BY THE COMET.


   =Immigrant Savings=--See PROSPERITY AS AN ADVERTISEMENT.


                              IMMIGRATION

There is an ominous side to immigration, but there are alleviating
facts. One of these was thus referred to by Bishop Warren of the
Methodist Episcopal Church:

   A while ago I was in a small country village in New England. For
   the first time in my life I looked upon a Methodist Episcopal
   church, once filled with happy worshipers, but now closed and
   abandoned. The population of the entire township was declining,
   and tho a few of the last remaining Methodists had added their
   help to the older and stronger Congregational church, even this
   was looking into the future with fear and trembling. Many of
   the native stock had died or moved away, and “foreigners were
   creeping in.” I got a boy to guide me to where one of these
   foreigners--a Finlander--lived. It was a neatly painted home,
   with a fine garden and an acre of land, all paid for, and
   occupied by the Finn and his son. All the foreigners in the
   village were Finns and there were of them just six men and four
   women. Of the latter, two were wives of two of the men and two
   were young women serving in American families. And what sort
   of people were they? One of the six men, I was told, was a lay
   preacher and, as Sunday services were a long way off and quite
   irregular, this little homeless community of ten dreaded and
   shunned immigrants were maintaining a weekly prayer-meeting!
   (Text.)

    (1531)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The total immigration to the United States for 1909 was 751,786.
   The net gain in foreign population was 718,433. The comparative
   immigration from the leading countries of the world for three
   years is shown in the following table:

    -----------------------+---------+---------+--------
        RACE OR PEOPLE     |  1909   |  1908   |  1907
    -----------------------+---------+---------+--------
    Italians, North-South  | 190,398 | 135,247 | 294,061
    Polish                 |  77,565 |  68,105 | 138,033
    German                 |  58,534 |  73,038 |  92,936
    Hebrew                 |  57,551 | 103,387 | 149,182
    English                |  39,021 |  49,056 |  51,126
    Scandinavian           |  34,996 |  32,789 |  53,425
    Irish                  |  31,185 |  36,427 |  38,706
    Magyar                 |  28,704 |  24,378 |  60,071
    Slovak                 |  22,586 |  16,170 |  42,041
    Greek                  |  20,262 |  28,808 |  46,283
    Croatian and Slovanian |  20,181 |  20,472 |  47,826
    French                 |  19,423 |  12,881 |   9,392
    Scotch                 |  16,446 |  17,014 |  20,516
    Ruthenian              |  15,808 |  12,361 |  24,081
    Mexican                |  15,591 |   5,682 |      91
    Lithuanian             |  15,254 |  13,720 |  25,884
    Finnish                |  11,687 |   6,746 |  14,860
    Russian                |  10,038 |  17,111 |  16,807
    Japanese               |   3,275 |  16,418 |  30,824
    -----------------------+---------+---------+--------

   The reader sees at once that more immigrants came from Italy
   than from any other country. In fact, the immigrants from
   Germany, England, Ireland, Scotland, France and Scandinavia
   numbered altogether 198,630, while those from Italy alone were
   190,398. Of these Italian immigrants 25,150 (in 1908, 24,700 and
   in 1907, 51,564) came from northern Italy and 165,248 (in 1908,
   110,547 and in 1907, 242,497) from southern Italy.

   Of the total 751,786 immigrants, 220,865 or 29.4 per cent.,
   declared that the State of New York was their intended place
   of residence (of Hebrews 60.2 per cent., of Italians 39.9 per
   cent., of Poles 23.8 per cent.).

    (1532)


                              IMMORTALITY

   The heart of man hears the call and feels the attraction of life
   beyond, as the woodland brook hears the call of the distant sea
   and hastens on to meet it.

    (1533)

       *       *       *       *       *

The fadeless hope of everlasting life is thus exprest by St. John
Adcock:

    I, that had life ere I was born
      Into this world of dark and light,
    Waking as one who wakes at morn
      From dreams of night.

    I am as old as heaven and earth;
      But sleep is death without decay,
    And since each morn renews my birth
      I am no older than the day.

    Old tho my outward form appears,
      Tho it at last outworn shall lie,
    This that is servile to the years,
      This is not I.

    I, who outwear the form I take,
      When I put off this garb of flesh,
    Still in immortal youth shall wake
      And somewhere clothe my life afresh.
    (Text.)--_The Monthly Review._

    (1534)

       *       *       *       *       *

   When the late Dr. Reese, of Swansea, preached the last time in
   North Wales, a friend said to him--one of those who are always
   reminding people that they are getting old: “You are whitening
   fast, Dr. Reese.” The old gentleman did not say anything then,
   but when he got to the pulpit he referred to it and said:
   “There is a wee white flower that comes up through the earth
   at this season of the year. Sometimes it comes up through the
   snow and frost; but we are glad to see the snow-drop, because
   it proclaims that the winter is over and that the summer is at
   hand. A friend reminded me last night that I was whitening fast.
   But heed not that, brother; it is to me proof that my winter
   will soon be over; that I shall have done presently with the
   cold east winds and the frosts of earth, and that my summer, my
   eternal summer, is at hand.” (Text.)--VYRNWY MORGAN,
   “The Cambro-American Pulpit.”

    (1535)

       *       *       *       *       *

James T. White is the author of the following lines, entitled “A Sea
Shell.” They appeared in the New York _Tribune_:

          Imprisoned in the shell
    Are echoes of the far-off ocean’s roar.
      May not our hopes of immortality,
          That deep within us dwell--
    Instinctive to the soul, and more and more
      Insistent to the heart--may not they be
          Soul-echoes of the swell
    That ceaseless beats on an eternal shore?

    (1536)


                       IMMORTALITY, A SYMBOL OF

This apostrophe to a butterfly was written by Alice Freeman Palmer:

    I hold you at last in my hand,
      Exquisite child of the air;
    Can I ever understand
      How you grew to be so fair?

    You came to this linden-tree
      To taste its delicious sweet,
    I sitting here in the shadow and shine
      Playing around its feet.

    Now I hold you fast in my hand,
      You marvelous butterfly,
    Till you help me to understand
      The eternal mystery.

    From that creeping thing in the dust
      To this shining bliss in the blue!
    God, give me courage to trust
      I can break my chrysalis, too!

    (1537)


                       IMMORTALITY, EVIDENCE OF

   Man, who builds bridges, sails ships, fights battles for
   liberty, erects cathedrals, writes hymns and prayers, founds
   homes, is given a little handful of thirty or forty years. Nor
   can the bulk of the elephant above man’s size ever explain the
   two hundred years given to some Jumbo munching hay, or the
   three thousand years given to some tree that is dead, inert and
   voiceless. The architect builds a marble palace for centuries,
   stores it with art treasures, that all the generations may
   throng in and out, feeding the eye and feasting the hunger for
   beauty, in form and color. But God spent millions of years upon
   this body, fearfully and wonderfully made, storing the soul’s
   temple with intellect, memory and judgment, with conscience,
   affections and moral sentiments. And did He build this soul
   that goes laughing, weeping, inventing, praying, through life,
   for that goal named a black hole in the ground?--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (1538)


                        IMMORTALITY, FEELING OF

   Living on the surface of the earth sense impressions constrain
   us to regard the earth as flat and still, and the sun and other
   heavenly bodies as moving across the heavens above our heads.
   But astronomers know that by long watching of the heavenly
   bodies an observer comes often to feel the motion and sense the
   rotundity of the earth.

So of the man who will live in the spiritual altitudes. He reasonably
believed before in the future life, but all his impressions have been
earthly, materialistic. But on the higher level he actually “lays hold
on the powers of an endless life.”

    (1539)


                      IMMORTALITY, INTIMATIONS OF

Eugene Field is the author of this:

    Upon the mountain height, far from the sea,
      I found a shell;
    And to my listening ear the lonely thing
    Ever a song of ocean seemed to sing,
      Ever a tale of ocean seemed to tell.

    How came the shell upon that mountain height?
      Ah, who can say?
    Whether there dropt by some too careless hand,
    Or whether there cast when ocean swept the land,
      Ere the eternal had ordained the day.

    Strange, was it not! Far from its native deep,
      One song it sang--
    Sang of the awful mysteries of the tide,
    Sang of the misty sea, profound and wide,
      Ever with echoes of the ocean rang.

    And as the shell upon the mountain height
      Sings of the sea,
    So do I ever, leagues and leagues away--
    So do I ever, wandering where I may,
      Sing, O my home! sing, O my home! of thee. (Text.)

    (1540)

       *       *       *       *       *

    A solemn murmur in its soul
      Tells of the world to be,
    As travelers hear the billows roll,
      Before they reach the sea.

    (1541)


                       IMMORTALITY OF INFLUENCE

Richard Watson Gilder writes this verse about a dead poet:

    I read that, in his sleep, the poet died
      Ere the day broke;
    In a new dawn, as rose earth’s crimson tide,
      His spirit woke.

    Yet still with us his golden spirit stayed,
      On the same page
    That told his end, his living verse I read--
      His lyric rage.

    Behold! I thought, they call him cold in death;
      But hither turn,
    See where his soul, a glorious, flaming breath,
      Doth pulse and burn.

    This is the poet’s triumph, his high doom!
      After life’s stress--
    For him the silent, dark, o’ershadowing tomb
      Is shadowless.

    And this the miracle and mystery--
      In that he gives
    His soul away, magnificently free,
      By this he lives. (Text.)

    --_The Outlook._

    (1542)


                         IMMORTALITY, PROOF OF

    “Proof,” asks the Soul, “that that which is shall be?
    That which was not, persist eternally?
    Faith fails before the mortal mystery.”

      Yet more miraculous miracle were this:
    The mortal, dreaming immortality;
    The finite, framing forth infinity;
      The shallow, lightly plumbing the abyss;
      Ephemeral lips, creating with a kiss;
    The transient eye, fixt on eternity! (Text.)

    --GRACE ELLERY CHANNING, _The Century_.

    (1543)


   =Immunity from Colds=--See VITALITY LOW.


                         IMMUNITY FROM DISEASE

   The island of Barbados, in the West Indies, is remarkably free
   from malaria, and this immunity from a disease which is so
   common in the tropics has been attributed to a species of fish
   that inhabits the waters of that island, and whose chief food is
   the larvæ of the mosquito. These fish are tiny minnows, never
   exceeding an inch and a half in length, and are generally known
   as “millions,” altho they bear a most impressive scientific
   name. They belong to the family of “top minnows,” feeding on the
   surface of the water, and their diminutive size enables them to
   swim over lily-pads and similar vegetation, which is covered
   only by a thin film of water, and there feast upon mosquito
   larvæ and other insects.

   These fish thrive in stagnant or running water, and whether it
   is fresh or brackish appears to have no effect upon them. The
   minnows will swim up stream against a strong current and then
   enter the smaller rivulets, thus distributing themselves over
   an entire water system. The young of these fish are not hatched
   from eggs, but are born alive.

   The Panama Canal Commission has decided to employ these minnows
   in the fight to rid the Isthmus of the malarial mosquito, and
   has imported a great quantity of the little fish. There are
   mosquito-eating fish in the Panama waters, but they are not
   sufficiently numerous to be of much value. However, a systematic
   stocking of the lakes and streams in the Canal Zone with the
   “millions” from Barbados should act as a severe check on the
   mosquito population of Panama, and indirectly aid in stamping
   out malaria.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (1544)

   See DISEASE, EXEMPTION FROM.


   =Immutability=--See INDIVIDUALITY OF GERMS.


                             IMPARTIALITY

   Lieut. Edmund Blaney, of the Atlantic Avenue police station,
   Brooklyn, who locked up his son brought in on the charge of
   fighting, is to be commended for his determination that his
   own shall be treated no better than others. It is a gratifying
   instance of the absence of “pull” and a delightful example of
   paternal willingness to see that punishment is meted out when
   it should be. Lieutenant Blaney could have let his fighting
   son, a man of twenty-three, and the other prisoner go upon
   their promise to appear in court, and no one would have taken
   exception to such a display of fatherly interest, but he
   preferred the Spartan attitude. The public need not expect
   this rule to be generally followed, for not many parents have
   the firmness to deal out the same degree of severe treatment
   to their own offspring as to those of others. A not to be
   overlooked feature of the case is the evident reduction of the
   young man’s opinion of his ability to violate the law and escape
   the consequences. He thought, or said, that he could not be
   arrested because he was an officer’s son. That was yesterday.
   To-day he is wiser and it is hoped a slightly better citizen
   from a forced realization that ordinances are intended for all
   alike.--Brooklyn _Standard Union_.

    (1545)


   =Impartiality of God=--See PRIVILEGE.


                              IMPATIENCE

   Victor Hugo pictures a man who is so maddened by failure and
   misfortune that he resolves on suicide. He is at the end of
   his resources, and he capitulates to death. No sooner has he
   committed suicide than the postman drops a letter in at his door
   which contains the information that a distant relative has left
   him a large fortune. If he had waited but one hour longer! For
   want of patience he lost all!

    (1546)

       *       *       *       *       *

Sergeant Cotton in his book “A Voice from Waterloo,” tells us what
Wellington thought Napoleon ought to have done:

   Napoleon never had so fine an army as at Waterloo. He was
   certainly wrong in attacking at all. He might have played again
   the same defensive game in the French territory which he had
   played so admirably the year before; that campaign of 1814 I
   consider the very finest he ever made. He might have given us
   great trouble and had many chances in his favor. But the fact is
   he never in his life had patience for a defensive war.

    (1547)


                        IMPATIENCE OF REFORMERS

   The besetting sin of the reformer is his impatience. The world
   must be redeemed at once. “The trouble seems to be,” said
   Theodore Parker of the anti-slavery cause, “that God is not in
   a hurry, and I am.” “If my scheme is not sufficient to redeem
   society,” said a labor leader not long ago, “what is yours?” as
   tho every self-respecting man must have some panacea of social
   salvation. The fact is, however, that a time like ours, whose
   symptoms are so complex and serious, is no time for social
   panaceas. As one of the most observant of American students
   of society has remarked: “When I hear a man bring forward a
   solution of the social question, I move to adjourn.” Jesus
   proposes no surgical operation which at one stroke can save the
   world. He offers no assurance that the tares of the world shall
   be exterminated by one sweep of the scythe. He adds faith to
   patience.--FRANCIS GREENWOOD PEABODY, “Proceedings of
   the Religious Education Association,” 1904.

    (1548)


                        IMPERFECTION IN NATURE

It is constantly felt by thoughtful minds that nothing is complete in
this universe. We wait for perfection and can not know it in this life
or in this world.

   In the world of flowers there are three primary colors, of which
   many broken shades form a countless number of secondary tints.
   But the scientific botanist points out a remarkable fact: many
   flowers are of compound colors. Some are red and blue; some
   are red and yellow; some are blue and yellow; but there never
   has been such a thing as a plant whose flowers burst into all
   three of the primary tints. Roses are red in various shades, and
   yellow also in many shades. But that is all; no florist has ever
   been able to produce a really blue rose. The same fact applies
   to the chrysanthemum; it may be red in some shade or other, or
   it may be yellow in a whole range of alternative tints; but
   the vain dream of the Japanese is to find the fabled “blue
   chrysanthemum.” A great fortune would await any one who could
   produce by his art a blue rose or a blue chrysanthemum. Nature
   denies to flowers the ability to range through the whole gamut
   of the colors of the rainbow.

    (1549)


                          IMPERFECTION, MAN’S

   Upon all man’s works we write one word--imperfect. Full as our
   world is of the beautiful and the useful, it also holds much
   of immaturity, wreckage and failure. The scientist insists
   that there is not one perfect leaf in the forest, not a red
   rose but holds some blemish, not a cluster or bunch but has
   suffered some injury. The winters chill the roots, untimely
   frosts bite the seed, rude storms strain the boughs. What Nature
   offers man is not perfection, but enough of use and beauty to
   satisfy to-day’s hunger, and to allure man to something better.
   Dwelling, therefore, under skies that oft are unfriendly, we
   perceive that even man’s best work shares in imperfection. His
   trains jump the track, his bridges break, his ships sink, rust
   destroys his tools, fire smites his factories, epidemics shorten
   his life. His fine arts are elective, representing the selection
   of the best elements carried up to the ideal conditions, and
   yet even man’s arts represent many forms of injury. All the
   treasure-houses of the world fail to show one statue that is
   perfect. The Winged Victory is without a head, the Venus di Milo
   is without arms, the Minerva has a black stain on the forehead,
   while only the torso of Jupiter remains, all else having
   gone.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1550)


   =Imperfection, Value of=--See _Diverse Influences_.


                        IMPERFECTIONS CORRECTED

   Some years ago I visited Albany, N. Y., when the Capitol was not
   finished. I saw men at work, apparently, removing stones from
   the wall on one side. When I asked about it, a workman said:
   “When that wall was erected they were unable to get granite of
   the right quality and color to complete the architect’s design.
   In order that the work might not be delayed, some blocks of wood
   were used temporarily. Now they have the quality and color of
   granite required, and are taking out those wooden blocks and
   replacing them with granite.” The Capitol was being built up,
   after the fashion of the architect’s ideal.

   So it is to-day with us. In the temple, our character, which
   is His dwelling-place, there are faulty stones. As we come
   to a clearer knowledge of the person of Jesus we perceive
   these imperfections and replace them with alabaster hewn from
   the Rock of Ages, “carved as the angels carved their crowns
   in the fadeless days of June.” If we are living up to the
   requirements of our profession, we are thus being built up in
   Him, continually approaching the ideal of the Master architect.
   (Text.)--H. G. FURBAY.

    (1551)


   =Imperfections in Character=--See DIVERSE INFLUENCES.


   =Imperviousness=--See EVIL, REPELLENCE OF.


   =Impoliteness=--See POLITENESS.


   =Importance, not Size=--See WORK DESPISED.


                   IMPOSSIBLE, ACHIEVING WHAT SEEMED

Hon. Richmond P. Hobson gives his impressions of army achievements as
he recalls his prison experiences in a Spanish fortress, and has this
to say:

   From my prison window in Santiago, which was but little in the
   rear of the Spanish line of entrenchments, I saw the Spaniards
   fortifying the city for twenty days. I watched them with
   critical interest. I saw them bring up guns from the ships and
   place them. Then I saw our men come up and drive the Spaniards
   into those entrenchments, and when they had driven them into the
   entrenchments I saw them go on and try to take the entrenchments
   themselves. It looked to be an impossible thing, but as yet
   the artillery was silent. The men came on up the hill and the
   artillery opened, and my heart sank when I saw that it was
   flanking artillery. For a moment the American fire ceased as
   tho the enemy’s guns had been a signal. “Now, then,” said I
   to myself, “this is the place where the individuality of the
   soldier will appear, for each man there knows that he is just
   as likely as any other man to be struck with that shrapnel.”
   None of them had ever been under fire before; they could not be
   put to a harder test; but how did they respond to it? Instantly
   after the lull a more rapid fire set in, and a more rapid rush
   of men up to the trenches. In spite of flanking artillery we
   had taken those fortified trenches with unsupported infantry--a
   thing that army experts the world over said could not be done.

    (1552)


                          IMPOSSIBLE, NOTHING

   At the dedication of the Bunker Hill monument, when it appeared
   that an accident was imminent by the surging of the crowds
   against the speakers’ platform, Webster requested the people
   to kindly move back. A man in the crowd answered back: “It is
   impossible!” Thereupon the great Massachusetts statesman cried
   out: “Impossible! Impossible! Nothing is impossible on Bunker
   Hill!”--CHARLES E. LOCKE.

    (1553)


                         IMPRECATION IN PSALMS

   Said one Unitarian minister to another, about the time when
   the breaking out of our Civil War exposed the wickedness of
   its instigators: “I never before felt so much like swearing.”
   “Well,” was the reply, “I felt as you do; but I turned to
   the Old Testament, and picked out one of good old David’s
   imprecatory Psalms. I read it twice aloud, and since then I have
   felt much better.”

    (1554)


                                IMPRESS

    I took a piece of plastic clay
    And idly fashioned it one day,
    And as my fingers prest it still,
    It moved and yielded to my will.

    I came again when days were past;
    The bit of clay was hard at last,
    The form I gave it still it bore,
    But I could change that form no more.

    I took a piece of living clay,
    And gently formed it day by day,
    And molded it with power and art--
    A young child’s soft and yielding heart.

    I came again when years were gone;
    He was a man I looked upon;
    He still that early impress wore.
    And I could change him never more.
    (Text.)

    (1555)


                        IMPRESSION BY PRACTISE

   A native Korean, who was told to memorize the entire Sermon on
   the Mount, did so with remarkable exactness. When asked how he
   accomplished it, he said: “My teacher told me to learn it with
   my heart as well as with my memory, so I hit on this plan. I
   would try to memorize a verse, and then find a heathen neighbor
   of mine and practise it on him. I found the verse would stick
   after I had done that, and I couldn’t forget a word of it.”

    (1556)


                              IMPRESSIONS

   On almost any sea beach you may see lying together smooth white
   pebbles, and ragged sponges, both drying in the sun and waiting
   the return of the tide. But when the tide comes and strikes the
   pebbles not a drop of the water enters them, thousands of years
   they have rolled up and down there, wearing smoother and growing
   more impervious all the time. But at the first touch of the
   incoming tide the sponges drink themselves full.

There is the same difference in men. Tides of spiritual influence flow
around some men and they keep growing harder--the same tides fill and
transform others.

    (1557)

   See TESTIMONY OF NATURE.


                          IMPRESSIONS, EARLY

The things children most quickly note and in which they take most
interest may indicate their bent of mind and help parents and
instructors to shape their education along lines of least resistance.
Thus R. H. Haweis says:

   “Long before I had ever touched a violin I was fascinated with
   its appearance. In driving to town as a child--when, standing up
   in the carriage, I could just look out of the window--certain
   fiddle-shops hung with mighty rows of violoncellos attracted
   my attention. I had dreams of these large editions--these
   patriarchs of the violin, as they seemed to me. I compared them
   in my mind with the smaller tenors and violins. I dreamed about
   their brown, big, dusty bodies and affable good-natured-looking
   heads and grinning faces. These violin shops were the great
   points watched for on each journey up to London from Norwood,
   where I spent my early days.”

    (1558)


   =Impressions Permanent=--See TEACHERS’ FUNCTION, THE.


   =Impression, Vivid=--See REMINDER, SEVERE.


                           IMPRISONED LIVES

   In the Persian desert the sad sight may be seen of brick pillars
   in which many an unfortunate victim has been walled up alive,
   as a horrible method of inflicting capital punishment. Some
   awful tales of cruelties perpetrated here are told. The victim
   is put into the pillar, which is half built up in readiness,
   then, if merciful, the executioner will cement quickly up to the
   face, when death comes speedily; but sometimes the torture is
   prolonged, and the inmate has been heard groaning and calling
   for water for three days.

How many lives are walled lives--built around and bricked in by
torturing limitations that suffocate joy and hope, and are no more than
a lingering death!

    (1559)


                          IMPROVED CONDITIONS

   In a district of Glasgow where the death-rate used to be forty
   in a thousand, sanitation has brought it down to twenty-eight,
   and it has been brought down to seventeen or eighteen in
   some parts of London. Boston reduced its death-rate from
   thirty-one to twenty, and Croydon, Eng., from twenty-eight
   to thirteen. Even the friction-match has had its share in
   prolonging life. “Doubtless many a fatal pneumonia and pleurisy
   has been contracted when the luckless householder’s lire had
   died out overnight, and he was struggling with flint, steel
   and tinderbox.” In London during the last century nearly two
   hundred thousand persons perished of smallpox. Macaulay says
   that a person without a pitted face was the exception. But,
   thanks largely to vaccination, in a recent year there were only
   fourteen cases of smallpox among New York’s inhabitants, and
   in the German army, where vaccination is compulsory, the dread
   disease has been eradicated. The production of pure water by
   distillation has done much to abolish alimentary diseases among
   sailors at sea, and lime-juice defends them from scurvy. When
   the first emigrant ships went out to Australia, one-third of
   the passengers perished on the voyage, but when the ship-owners
   were forced to alter their terms and receive pay only for those
   they landed safely, the death-rate became smaller than when
   these same persons were living upon shore. In Queen Elizabeth’s
   time, one in two thousand of her London subjects was murdered
   annually. At the same rate there would be 2,500 murders every
   year in London now, whereas the number is no more than twelve.
   This is what the lighter street and a more efficient police
   have done for the British metropolis. Facts like these are a
   most wholesome and agreeable corrective for the lament over the
   departure of the “good old times,” so much affected by the cynic
   and the pessimist.--Boston _Journal_.

    (1560)


                             =IMPROVEMENT=

    He came to my desk with a quivering lip,
      The lesson was done--
    “Dear teacher, I want a new leaf,” he said,
      “I have spoiled this one.”
    In place of the leaf so stained and blotted,
    I gave him a new one all unspotted,
      And into his sad eyes smiled--
      “Do better now, my child.”

    I went to the throne with a quivering soul,
      The old year was done--
    “Dear Father, hast Thou a new leaf for me,
      I have spoiled this one?”
    He took the old leaf, stained and blotted,
    And gave me a new one all unspotted,
      And into my sad heart smiled--
      “Do better now, my child.”

    (1561)

       *       *       *       *       *

We can all help make the world better, as suggested by Annie Aldrich in
these verses:

    Make the world a little better as you go;
    And be thoughtful of the kind of seed you sow;
      Try to make some pathway bright
      As you strive to do the right,
    Making the world a little better as you go.

    Make the world a little better as you go;
    You may help to soothe some fellow-creature’s wo;
      You can make some burden light,
      As you try with all your might
    To make the world a little better as you go.

    Make the world a little better as you go;
    As you meet your brother going to and fro,
      You may lend a friendly hand,
      Lift the fallen! Help them stand!
    Make the world a little better as you go.

    (1562)

       *       *       *       *       *

If Christian methods of felling the tree of evil had advanced as far as
the art of tree-cutting described below, we should soon be rid of bad
institutions and tendencies:

   “It is reported in the German press,” says _Forestry and
   Irrigation_, “that successful experiments have been made
   in various forests of France in cutting trees by means of
   electricity. A platinum wire is heated to a white heat by an
   electric current and used like a saw. In this manner the tree is
   felled much easier and quicker than in the old way, no sawdust
   is produced, and the slight carbonization caused by the hot wire
   acts as a preservative of the wood. The new method is said to
   require only one-eighth of the time consumed by the old sawing
   process.”

    (1563)

       *       *       *       *       *

Some day we shall be wise enough to utilize the hint suggested in the
extract, by caring as much at least for improving the human race as we
now care for improving our domestic animals:

   A. Ogerodnikoff, a wealthy Russian dealer in furs in
   Vladivostok, while visiting San Francisco, told an interesting
   story of experiments made by his cousin, Rachatnikoff, who
   has been devoting himself for years to the propagation of a
   beautiful race of people. Ogerodnikoff, according to the press
   reports, said:

   “Years ago Rachatnikoff attracted to his estate especially
   handsome men and girls of more than usual beauty by offering
   free land to forty or fifty men carefully picked from among
   a large number of applicants and selecting for them as wives
   fine-looking young women from different parts of Russia. This
   selected colony has flourished beyond all expectation, and over
   a hundred children have been raised from these unions.

   “These children are so pretty as to make the Rachatnikoff estate
   famous.” (Text.)

    (1564)


   =Improvement, Material=--See ADVANCEMENT, RAPID.


   =Improvement Meeting With Disfavor=--See SAFETY VALVES.


                            IMPROVING TIME

   One of the most important books on British ornithology is
   Gilbert White’s “Natural History of Selborne.” This work is
   made up of the jottings and notes of the author concerning the
   animals he saw in his daily walks through the woods and fields
   in the immediate vicinity of his little country parish, which he
   seldom left. (Text.)

    (1565)


                           IMPUDENCE, BRAZEN

Unblushing assurance in rascality is not a new thing in the world.

   A firm of shady outside London brokers was prosecuted for
   swindling, says _Everybody’s_. In acquitting
   them, the court, with great severity, said:

   “There is not sufficient evidence to convict you, but if any one
   wishes to know my opinion of you I hope that you will refer to
   me.”

   Next day the firm’s advertisement appeared in every available
   medium, with the following well displayed: “Reference as to
   probity, by special permission, the Lord Chief Justice of
   England.”

    (1566)


   =Impulsiveness=--See SUSPICION.


                            IMPURE THOUGHTS

   A man went to his friend and asked the loan of a barrel.
   “Certainly,” was the reply, “if you will bring it back
   uninjured.” The man used the barrel to hold brandy until he
   could get certain bottles from the factory, when he filled them
   and returned the barrel to his friend. But the barrel smelled
   of brandy, and the owner sent it back with the request that it
   be cleansed. Boiling water was poured into the barrel, but it
   still smelled of brandy. Acids and disinfectants were put in,
   but the smell of the brandy could not be removed. It was left
   out in the rain, but all to no purpose; the smell of the brandy
   still remained. So it is with impure thoughts; when they are
   once admitted they remain and taint the whole life.--JAMES
   T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (1567)


                              IMPURITIES

Should not men be as careful of the moral atmosphere of their lives as
of the air in their rooms?

   Mr. John Aitken, a well-known investigator of the atmosphere,
   made a series of experiments on the number of dust particles in
   ordinary air. His results show that outside air, after a wet
   night, contained 521,000 dust particles per cubic inch; outside
   air in fair weather contained 2,119,000 particles in the same
   space; that near the ceiling contained 88,346,000 particles per
   cubic inch. The air collected over a Bunsen flame contained no
   less than 489,000,000 particles per cubic inch. The numbers for
   a room were got with gas burning in the room, and at a height
   of four feet from the floor. These figures, tho not absolute,
   show how important is the influence of a gas-jet on the air we
   breathe, and the necessity for good ventilation in apartments.
   Mr. Aitken remarks that there seem to be as many dust particles
   in a cubic inch of air in a room at night when gas is burning
   as there are inhabitants in Great Britain, and that in three
   cubic inches of the gases from a Bunsen flame there are as many
   particles as there are people in the world.--_Cassell’s Family
   Magazine._

    (1568)


   =Impurities, Atmospheric=--See SOOT.


   =Impurities Tested=--See TESTS.


                 INADEQUACY OF NON-CHRISTIAN RELIGIONS

   Dr. H. O. Dwight was telling us of a voyage that he took in the
   Levant with a Turkish official; and as they sat down in the
   cabin at the dinner table the Turkish official, inviting Dr.
   Dwight to drink with him, said: “You may think it strange that
   I, a Mohammedan, should ask you, a Christian, to drink with
   me, when wine-drinking is forbidden by our religion. I will
   tell you how I dare to do this thing.” He filled his glass, and
   held it up, looking at the beautiful color of it, and said:
   “Now, if I say that it is right to drink this wine, I deny
   God’s commandments to men, and He would punish me in hell for
   the blasphemy. But I take up this glass, admitting that God
   has commanded me not to drink it, and that I sin in drinking
   it. Then I drink it off, so casting myself on the mercy of
   God. For our religion lets me know that God is too merciful to
   punish me for doing anything which I wish to do, when I humbly
   admit that to do it breaks His commandments.” His religion
   furnished this pasha with no moral restraints or power for
   true character.--ROBERT E. SPEER, “Student Volunteer
   Movement,” 1906.

    (1569)


   =Inattention Overcome=--See RANK, OBSEQUIOUSNESS TO.


   =Inborn, The=--See INNATE, THE.


   =Incantation=--See BIRTH CEREMONIES; EXORCISM.


   =Incense=--See OFFERINGS, EXTRAVAGANT.


   =Incentive=--See HEAVEN.


                              INCENTIVES

   The most interesting chapel in Italy is the _Santa Maria
   Novella_, in Florence. In this edifice is a famous picture.
   On the right-hand side is a female figure with three children
   at her knee; she is holding in one hand a little rod, and in
   the other a golden apple; and she is pointing to an exceedingly
   narrow door.

Yes, the gate of life is narrow, and rod and apple--chastisement and
reward--are necessary incentives urging entrance. (Text.)

    (1570)


                              INCERTITUDE

The Rochester _Democrat and Chronicle_ is responsible for the
following story from Washington:

   “Jadam,” said Major McDowell, the clerk of the House of
   Representatives, to J. Adam Bede, of Minnesota, yesterday,
   “that was a fine speech you made to-day, a fine speech.” “Yes,
   I thought it was a pretty good speech,” Mr. Bede assented
   modestly. “It was an extremely fine speech. It was logical and
   had wit in it, and was delivered with great declamatory effect.
   I listened to it with much pleasure.” “I am glad you liked it,”
   chirruped Mr. Bede. “Indeed I did,” the Major continued, “and
   now, if it is betraying no confidence, I’d like to ask you a
   question.” “Why, my dear Major,” exclaimed Bede, “of course I
   shall be glad to do anything I can for you. Go ahead.” “Well,
   Jadam,” and the Major put a fatherly hand on Bede’s shoulder. “I
   wish you would tell me which side of the question you are really
   on.”

    (1571)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The representative of an English newspaper, sent some time since
   to Ireland to move about and learn by personal observation the
   real political mind of the people there, reported on his return
   that he had been everywhere and talked with all sorts, and that
   as nearly as he could make out the attitude of the Irish might
   be stated about thus: “They don’t know what they want--and they
   are bound to have it.”--JOSEPH H. TWICHELL.

    (1572)

   See DUALITY.


   =Incitement=--See INSPIRATION, SOURCES OF.


                              INCITEMENT

Very much of human discontent arises from first hearing our wrongs
described by others:

   Rufus Choate, the American lawyer, defended a blacksmith whose
   creditor had seized some iron that a friend had lent him to
   assist in the business after a bankruptcy. The seizure of the
   iron was said to have been made harshly. Choate thus described
   it: “He arrested the arm of industry as it fell toward the
   anvil; he put out the breath of his bellows; he extinguished the
   fire upon his hearthstone. Like pirates in a gale at sea, his
   enemies swept everything by the board, leaving, gentlemen of
   the jury, not so much--not so much as a horseshoe to nail upon
   the door-post to keep the witches off.” The blacksmith, sitting
   behind, was seen to have tears in his eyes at this description,
   and a friend noticing it, said: “Why, Tom, what’s the matter
   with you? What are you blubbering about?” “I had no idea,” said
   Tom in a whisper, “that I had been so abominably ab-ab bused.”
   (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (1573)

   See INSPIRATION.


   =Incitement to Evil=--See RESPONSIBILITY EVADED.


                             INCONSISTENCY

An anonymous writer in _The Independent_ tells the following story
as illustrating Mr. Hearst’s belief that “money will buy the fruit of
any man’s work”:

   Some time ago a young writer applied to him for employment on
   his New York newspaper, and was engaged to fill a position which
   would become vacant at the end of a week, but in the interval
   the fact came to the attention of a university professor who had
   always taken an interest in his advancement.

   “I am sorry,” said the good man, “that you should have chosen
   that particular school of journalism for your professional
   start.” And he proceeded to descant upon the responsibility
   a journalist owed to society, the influence of one educated
   youth’s example upon others of his class, the tone a writer
   inevitably took from the character of the journals he worked
   for, etc. “And your untarnished sense of self-respect, my young
   friend,” he concluded, “will be worth more to you, when you
   reach my time of life, than all the salaries an unprincipled
   employer can pour into your purse.”

   So imprest was the neophyte with this lecture in morals that he
   called upon Mr. Hearst the next morning and announced that he
   had changed his mind about accepting the proffered position.
   The editor scanned his face shrewdly, and then inquired the
   reason. After much hesitancy the young man told him the whole
   story, and started to leave.

   “Ah,” said Mr. Hearst. “Be seated a moment, please!” And,
   turning to his secretary, he added: “Write a letter at once to
   Professor X. Y., present my compliments, and say that I should
   be pleased to receive from him a signed article of five hundred
   words--subject and treatment to be of his own choosing--for the
   editorial page of next Sunday’s paper. Inclose check for $250.

   “Now,” he remarked, with a cynical smile, as he bade his caller
   good-by, “you can see for yourself what comes of that.”

   He did. The Sunday issue contained a signed article, which gave
   the paper the reflection of a good man’s fame, and spread the
   influence of his example among other university professors,
   and--did what to his self-respect?--all at the rate of fifty
   cents per word! (Text.)

    (1574)

   See INJUSTICE.


                         INCONSPICUOUS WORKERS

Most of this world’s work is done by the people who will never be
known. To every worthy worker, however, a mede of credit is due, and
sometimes it finds recognition, as in the instance here recorded:

   An officer who was at West Point a generation ago tells of the
   influence Miss Susan Warner had on the boys of the Academy in
   the ’70’s and ’80’s. “The Wide, Wide World,” by Miss Warner,
   was a popular book then with the cadets’ mothers, who would
   urge their sons to visit Constitution Island and write home a
   description of the author. So many boys would visit the Island.
   Every Sunday afternoon the Warner sisters would send their
   man-of-all-work in a boat to the Point to bring over a load
   of cadets. The boys would gather around Miss Susan as she sat
   on the lawn and listen to her read the Scriptures and explain
   them in a bright, cheerful view of religion and life. After
   the talks would come a treat of tea and home-made gingerbread.
   She was very delicate and frail and often her talks would
   completely exhaust her. She kept up correspondence with many of
   the visiting cadets long after they had become distinguished
   officers. Her last letter to one just before her death had a
   pathos known only to her cadet friends. It read: “I no longer
   have the strength to cross the river to meet the boys, and the
   superintendent we now have will not allow them to come to me, so
   my usefulness with them seems to be at an end.”

    (1575)


   =Incorruptible, The=--See PURITY.


   =Increase by Civilization=--See CONSERVATION.


   =Increasing and Decreasing=--See SELF-ESTIMATE.


                              INCREDULITY

   Dr. W. H. Thomson, in his book on “What is Physical Life,”
   says that “once, while talking to a roomful of the naturally
   bright people of a town in Mount Hermon about the achievements
   of Western civilization, I happened to tell a toothless old
   man present that in our country we had skilled persons who
   could make for him an entirely new set of teeth. Glancing round
   the room, I noticed some listeners stroking their beards in a
   fashion which I knew meant that I was telling a preposterous
   yarn. Fortunately I had with me an elderly Scotch friend who
   had a set of false teeth, and on explaining the situation to
   him, he forthwith opened his mouth and pulled the whole set out.
   The Arabs jumped to their feet in fright, not sure but he might
   start to unscrew his head next, for had any of their venerated
   ancestors ever seen such an uncanny performance with teeth? They
   afterward said that never would they have believed this if they
   had not seen it.”

    (1576)

   See CHRISTIANITY AND CIVILIZATION.


                              INDECISION

   When the King of Sparta had crossed the Hellespont and was about
   to march through Thrace, he sent to the people in the different
   regions, asking them whether he should march through their
   country as a friend or as an enemy. “By all means as a friend,”
   said most of the regions; but the King of Macedon replied, “I
   will take time to consider it.” “Then,” said the King of Sparta,
   “Let him consider it, but meantime we march, we march.” (Text.)

    (1577)

   See SENTIMENT, MIXED.


   =Indestructibility of Man=--See MAN INDESTRUCTIBLE.


                    INDIA, MEDICAL OPPORTUNITIES IN

   I wish it were possible for me to give you some idea of the
   amount of suffering and misery there is in India to-day; but I
   fear that I can not do it, for you have seldom been where you
   could not obtain the services of a good physician in time of
   need, or even be taken to a hospital, if it were desirable.
   But there are millions of people in India who have no such
   resources as that. Shall I tell you of a man who came to our
   hospital some time ago suffering from a cataract in one eye?
   He was an intelligent man, well educated, and he wanted to
   save his eyesight. He employed some of the native doctors to
   treat the eye, and when he came to us he said that he thought
   he had had at least twenty-five pounds of medicine put in his
   eye. That sounded like such a large story that we asked for
   the particulars, and I think he was about right. It was all to
   no purpose, however, so that he changed doctors and got a new
   remedy that was guaranteed. They opened his eye and sifted it
   full of pounded glass. If you have ever had a cinder in your
   eye, perhaps you can to some small extent imagine the agonies
   which that man endured before he came to us. That is not an
   uncommon case, and frequently when I go into the dispensary in
   the morning I find there mothers with their little children.
   They hold them out to me in their arms and say, “Won’t you look
   at this child’s eyes?” I say, “Well, mother, what is the matter
   with the eyes?” “Oh, about two or three weeks ago the child’s
   eyes were red and it cried a little bit, and we tried to open
   them to see what was the matter, but the child made so much fuss
   we couldn’t do anything. Now, they have been shut so long that
   we are afraid there is something the matter; we want you to look
   and see.” I open those eyelids with my fingers; I know what I am
   going to see. The front part of the eyeball is gone--sloughed
   away, rotted out just in those few days. A few simple remedies,
   a little cleanliness at the proper time, would have saved those
   eyes, but often I have to say to those mothers, “Your child
   is blind for life.” There are many thousands of such little
   children in India to-day sitting by the side of the road waiting
   for the coppers which the passer-by will fling to them, and
   which they must find by feeling around in the dust. It is a very
   common practise on the part of the native physicians to apply
   as a counter-irritant to the surface of the body a material
   which burns like a red-hot iron; and if you have burned your
   finger recently, you can imagine how it would be to be burned in
   stripes from the nape of your neck right down to your heels, or
   to have patterns worked on your body with that fiery material.
   If you have suffered recently from such a simple ailment as a
   toothache, imagine a land without any dentists or other means to
   relieve that ache. The tooth must ache in India, until nature
   brings its own remedy, and the tooth drops out.--A. S.
   WILSON, “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (1578)


   =Indian, The=--See CONSERVATION.


   =Indian, The Word of an=--See PROMISE, AN INDIAN’S.


                           INDIANS, AMERICAN

“The ‘noble’ red man of traditional lore was usually a very low-bred,
dirty savage, uninteresting except for his blood-thirstiness and
capacity for rum and mischief.” What education, mostly under government
supervision, has been able to do with the Indian is shown in the
extract:

   Supt. Friedman of the Carlisle Indian School remarks that thirty
   years have elapsed since the first group of eighty-two Sioux
   Indians from the Pine Ridge and Rosebud Reservations of South
   Dakota arrived at Carlisle, Penn., to receive the benefit of a
   civilized education. Out of this beginning an elaborate system
   of Indian schools has grown, including 167 day-schools, 88
   reservation boarding schools and 26 non-reservation schools,
   so that to-day 25,777 Indian students are being educated under
   the Government’s immediate patronage, at a cost for the fiscal
   year 1909 of $4,008,825. The students in the contract schools
   and missions swell this total to 30,630. The Carlisle school,
   the largest of all, has an enrolment of 1,132, which is not much
   below the enrolment of Princeton College.--New York _Times_.

    (1579)


   =Indians’ Receptiveness to the Gospel=--See FATHER, OUR.


                         INDICATOR, AN INSECT

   One of the simplest of barometers is a spider’s web. When there
   is a prospect of rain or wind the spider shortens the filaments
   from which its web is suspended and leaves things in this state
   as long as the weather is variable. If the insect elongates its
   thread it is a sign of fine calm weather, the duration of which
   may be judged of by the length to which the threads are let out.
   If the spider remains inactive it is a sign of rain; but if,
   on the contrary, it keeps at work during the rain the latter
   will not last long, and will be followed by fine weather. Other
   observations have taught that the spider makes changes in its
   web every twenty-four hours, and that if such changes are made
   in the evening, just before sunset, the night will be clear and
   beautiful.--_La Nature._

    (1580)


   =Indifference=--See BALLOT, A DUTY.


   =Indifference to Strangers=--See CONFIDENCE.


                       INDIFFERENCE TO THE GOOD

_Zion’s Herald_ prints this significant poem:

    People tell the story yet,
    With the pathos of regret,
    How along the streets one day,
    Unawares from far away,
    Angels passed with gifts for need,
    And no mortal gave them heed.
    They had cheer for those who weep,
    They had light for shadows deep,
    Balm for broken hearts they bore,
    Rest, deep rest, a boundless store;
    But the people, so they say,
    Went the old blind human way,--
    Fed the quack and hailed the clown
      When the angels came to town.

    It has been and will be so:
    Angels come and angels go,
    Opportunity and Light,
    ’Twixt the morning and the night,
    With their messages divine
    To your little world and mine.
    And we wonder why we heard
    Not a whisper of their word,
    Caught no glimpse of finer grace
    In the passing form and face;
    That our ears were dull as stones
    To the thrill of spirit tones,
    And we looked not up, but down,
      When the angels came to town.

    (1581)


                            INDIFFERENTISM

   A German professor of theology is reported to have said in
   lecturing to his students on the existence of God, that while
   the doctrine, no doubt, was an important one, it was so
   difficult and perplexed that it was not advisable to take too
   certain a position upon it, as many were disposed to do. There
   were those, he remarked, who were wont in the most unqualified
   way to affirm that there was a God. There were others who,
   with equal immoderation, committed themselves to the opposite
   proposition--that there was no God. The philosophical mind,
   he added, will look for the truth somewhere between these
   extremes.--JOSEPH H. TWICHELL.

    (1582)


                         INDIVIDUAL INFLUENCE

   I met, the other day, a learned judge who told me that for
   more than twenty years he had met every winter, in his own
   library, once a week, a club of his neighbors, men and women,
   who came, and came gladly, that he might guide them in the study
   of history. “And all those people,” said he, laughing--there
   are three or four hundred of them now, scattered over the
   world--“they all know what to read, and how to read it.” You
   see that village is another place because that one man lived
   there.--EDWARD EVERETT HALE.

    (1583)


   =Individual Initiative=--See NEED, MEETING CHILDREN’S.


   =Individual, Seeking the=--See PERSONAL EVANGELISM.


   =Individual Value=--See COLLECTIVE LABOR.


                       INDIVIDUAL, VALUE OF THE

This fine verse is from Canon Farrar:

        “I am only one,
        But I am one.
    I can not do everything,
        But I can do something,
        What I can do
        I ought to do
    And what I ought to do
    By the grace of God I will do.” (Text.)

    (1584)


   =Individualism=--See INITIATIVE.


                       INDIVIDUALISM, EXCESSIVE

   Haydon, the painter, was an ill-used man; but it was purely
   his own fault. He would paint high art when people did not
   want it--would paint acres of hooked-nosed Romans, and bore
   the public with Dentatus, Scipio and Co., when they wanted
   something else. He was like a man taking beautiful pebbles to
   market when people wanted eggs, and telling that they ought
   not to want eggs, because they led to carnality and had a
   nasty and disgusting connection with bacon. But people would
   not have it--eggs they wanted, and eggs they would have, how
   beautiful soever the pebbles might be. So with Haydon. He
   persisted that the people ought to have what they did not want,
   and he went from a prison to a lunatic asylum, and died a
   suicide.--GEORGE DAWSON.

    (1585)


                             INDIVIDUALITY

   Rembrandt paints all in a shadow, and Claude Lorraine in sunny
   light. Petrarch frames with cunning skill his chiming sonnets,
   and Dante portrays with majestic hand, that makes the page
   almost tingle with fire, his vision of the future. Shakespeare,
   with a well-nigh prescient intelligence, interprets the secrets
   of history and of life, and reads the courses of the future in
   the past, and Milton rolls, from beneath the great arches of
   his religious and cathedral-like soul, its sublime oratorios.
   And the copiousness of experience, the variety, affluence,
   multiformity of life, as it exists upon earth and arrests our
   attention, is derived altogether, in the ultimate analysis, from
   this personal constitution of each individual.--RICHARD S.
   STORRS.

    (1586)

       *       *       *       *       *

Jesus said of the Good Shepherd, “He calleth his own sheep by name.”
We have each his own personal marks, and are never lost in the mass of
humanity.

   An inspector of police and, in general, every person unfamiliar
   with the application of the “verbal portrait,” tho possessing
   the photograph of an individual, will pass by that individual
   without recognition, if the photograph is a few years old or
   if the general appearance has been altered by a gain or loss
   of flesh, or by a change in the beard or the hair or even the
   clothes. On the other hand, descriptive identification, which
   means an accurate description of the immovable parts of the face
   (forehead, nose, ears, etc.), enables those who are sufficiently
   familiar with the method to identify a person with certainty,
   not only with the aid of a photograph, but also simply by means
   of a printed description of those characteristics of the person
   in question which are out of the ordinary. (Text.)--L.
   RAMAKERS, _The Scientific American_.

    (1587)

       *       *       *       *       *

   No rainbow that paints its arch upon the cloud, no river that
   courses like liquid silver through emerald banks, no sunset
   that opens its deeps of splendor, with domes of sapphire and
   pinnacles of chrysolite, hath any such beauty to him who
   surveys it as the poem or discourse which speaks the peace, or
   the triumphing hope, of another human soul. For forever is it
   true that the life in each stands apart from the life in every
   other. It hath its center, tho not its cause, within itself; is
   full-orbed in each; commingled with that of no other being; as
   separate in each, and as purely individual, as if there were no
   other besides it in existence!--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (1588)

       *       *       *       *       *

Students of social phenomena must allow for the personal equation. Men
are certainly as individual as birds:

   Every bird sings his own song; no two sing exactly alike, ...
   the song of every singer is unique. There are, of course,
   similarities in the songs of birds of the same species.... For
   lack of intimate acquaintance with the music of a particular
   bird, we think he sings just like the next one. Why! do all
   roosters have the same crow? No; any farmer knows better than
   this.... Every individual sings his own song.

    (1589)

   See ORIGINALITY; PERSONAL ELEMENT.


                    INDIVIDUALITY IN INTERPRETATION

On the question as to how far it is permissible for the actor’s
own personality to enter into his interpretation of Shakespearian
characters, Mr. Herbert Beerbohm Tree said:

   “Certain it is that while the actor’s self-suppression is
   among the most essential factors of success in his art,
   so also his own individuality, his own personality--in a
   word, his humanity--are all-important. I mean, you can not
   imagine a characterless person playing the great characters
   of Shakespeare. You say: ‘Oh, it doesn’t matter! Shakespeare
   has taken care of all that!’ ‘Yes,’ I reply, ‘but it requires
   individuality to interpret individuality--power, force,
   character, to realize the creations of the master brain.’
   Nothing else than individuality will make the humanity of these
   characters stand out sharp and clear from the mass of humanities
   grouped behind it.” (Text.)--_The Fortnightly Review._

    (1590)


   =Individuality in Nature=--See ANIMISM.


                        INDIVIDUALITY OF GERMS

Change is stamped upon life, but according to science, the opposite
also is true. Life, in its minutest subdivisions, is true to itself.
It knows no variation nor shadow of turning. Dr. Stirling remarks
concerning protoplasm:

   Here are several thousand pieces of protoplasm; analysis can
   detect no difference in them. They are to us, let us say, as
   they are to Mr. Huxley, identical in power, in form, and in
   substance; and yet on all these several thousand little bits of
   apparently indistinguishable matter an element of difference
   so pervading and so persistent has been imprest, that of them
   all, not one is interchangeable with another! Each seed feeds
   its own kind. The protoplasm of the gnat will no more grow
   into the fly than it will grow into an elephant. Protoplasm is
   protoplasm; yes, but man’s protoplasm is man’s protoplasm, and
   the mushroom’s the mushroom’s.

    (1591)


                     INDIVIDUALS, GOD’S CARE OVER

   Mrs. Julia Ward Howe was in Washington and brought a case of
   need before a distinguished Senator, who excused himself,
   writing that he was so taken up with matters of wide public
   interest that he could not look after individual cases.
   Mrs. Howe wrote in her note-book that “at last accounts
   the Lord God Almighty had not attained to that eminence.”
   (Text.)--FRANKLIN NOBLE, “Sermons in Illustration.”

    (1592)


   =Indolence Forerunner of Dishonesty=--See DISHONESTY.


                              INDORSEMENT

   Old Gorgon, apropos of letters of introduction, hands out a
   whole string of neat conclusions. “Giving a note of introduction
   is simply lending your name with a man as collateral, and if
   he’s no good you can’t have the satisfaction of redeeming your
   indorsement even; and you’re discredited.... I reckon that
   the devil invented the habit of indorsing notes and giving
   letters to catch the fellows he couldn’t reach with whisky and
   gambling.”--GEORGE HORACE LORIMER, “Old Gorgon Graham.”

    (1593)


   =Industrial Church Training=--See PRACTISE AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING.


                          INDUSTRIAL TRAINING

   The boy utterly unable, even if he were studious, to keep up in
   book knowledge and percentage with the brighter boys, becomes
   discouraged, dull, and moody. Let him go to the work-room for an
   hour and find that he can make a box or plane a rough piece of
   board as well as the brighter scholar, nay, very likely better
   than his brighter neighbor, and you have given him an impulse of
   self-respect that is of untold benefit to him when he goes back
   to his studies. He will be a brighter and better boy for finding
   out something that he can do well.--_American Magazine._

    (1594)


                        INDUSTRY AND LONGEVITY

   Capt. Robert McCulloch, who was elected president of the United
   Railways Company at the age of sixty-seven, was asked recently
   why he does not retire and live comfortably on his income.
   As general manager of the $90,000,000 corporation, Captain
   McCulloch is frequently at his office at 5 A.M. and
   remains until late in the evening.

   “I had a friend once,” said Captain McCulloch, answering the
   inquiry, “who started in life in a very modest way. He sold
   railway supplies, and to help him along I bought some of his
   goods. Eventually he branched out, became the general manager of
   a railway-supply house, and in time got rich.

   “I met him two weeks before his fiftieth birthday. He told me
   he had acquired a competency, having several hundred thousand
   dollars invested in gilt-edged securities, besides his
   magnificent home in Chicago, and that on his fiftieth birthday
   he was going to retire and enjoy life.

   “Just a year later I received his funeral notice. If he had
   kept on working like I have, he would be living yet. Work is
   necessary to enjoyment, good health, and length of days. That’s
   why I don’t quit. I prefer to live a while longer, and know I
   would die if I quit.”--St. Louis _Post-Dispatch_.

    (1595)


                           INDUSTRY OF BEES

   It is estimated that, to collect one pound of honey, 62,000
   heads of clover must be deprived of their nectar, necessitating
   3,750,000 visits from bees. It would seem from this that the
   reputation of the wonderful little insect for industry has not
   been overrated. Wax is a substance secreted by the bees, and
   is analogous to the fat of higher animals. To produce a single
   pound of wax, the bees must consume from fifteen to twenty
   pounds of honey. This expensive substance is used by the thrifty
   little insects with the greatest economy. (Text.)--_Public
   Opinion._

    (1596)


                           INDUSTRY OF BIRDS

   “Our hours,” said a nature student, “are nothing to the birds.
   Why, some birds work in the summer nineteen hours a day.
   Indefatigably they clear the crops of insects.

   “The thrush gets up at 2:30 every summer morning. He rolls up
   his sleeves, and falls to work at once, and he never stops until
   9:30 at night. A clean nineteen hours. During that time he feeds
   his voracious young two hundred and six times.

   “The blackbird starts work at the same time as the thrush, but
   he ‘lays off’ earlier. His whistle blows at 7:30, and during his
   seventeen-hour day he sets about one hundred meals before his
   kiddies.

   “The titmouse is up and about at three in the morning and his
   stopping time is nine at night. A fast worker, the titmouse is
   said to feed his young four hundred and seventeen meals--meals
   of caterpillar mainly--in the long, hard, hot day.”--_Green’s
   Fruit Grower._

    (1597)


                       INDUSTRY VERSUS IDLENESS

   There was a great painter named Hogarth, who painted a series
   of pictures. The first of the series shows two lads starting
   in life as apprentices under the same master. They are about
   the same age, are equally clever, and have the same prospect of
   getting on. Yet in the other pictures, one apprentice, whose
   name is Tom Idle, is shown to neglect his work for bad company
   of every kind, gradually sinking from idleness into every
   crime. The other apprentice, Frank Goodchild, is depicted as
   always industrious and attentive to his business, and becoming
   prosperous and rich. Another picture shows that Tom has sunk
   into poverty and misery; another picture shows that Frank has
   become a great merchant. One of the last pictures shows Tom in
   the hands of the constables, brought before Alderman Goodchild,
   who is now high sheriff, and who is pained and distrest in
   recognizing his old fellow apprentice in the prisoner at the
   bar.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (1598)


                         INEBRIETY, INCURABLE

Is the drunkard curable? Dr. Gill, a British expert, in a recent report
says that mental recoveries in a considerable number never go beyond
a certain point, and he classes nearly 50 per cent of his patients as
higher-grade imbeciles, while many others are weak-minded and unable to
work--perhaps congenital neurasthenics. He goes on to say:

   Even in the smaller number classed as normal men, the mental
   recovery is very slow, so that the advertised methods of quick
   cure are fallacious. Notwithstanding the fact that men of
   great or average intelligence might be afflicted, most of our
   inebriates are congenital defectives--even the drunken genius
   is a warped mental specimen. The inebriety is a result of their
   condition and not a cause. How dishonest, then, it is, to hold
   out the promise of cure, as many of the sanatoriums do! The
   present trend of thought among lawmakers is in the direction
   of the confinement of inebriates for life, and it seems to be
   founded on sound pathologic findings.

    (1599)


                             INEQUALITIES

    Twenty little maidens
      Sighing at a hop,
    Wishing twenty fellows
      Would come there to stop.

    Twenty dapper clerklings
      Sitting in a row,
    Dipping pens in ink-stands,
      Much would like to go.

    Ah! this world’s an odd one,
      Things don’t even up;
    When we want a quartful,
      We only get a cup.

    (1600)


   =Inexperience Re-enforced=--See ENCOURAGEMENT.


                         INFANTICIDE IN CHINA

   Missionaries see little bodies floating upon the scum of the
   ponds or thrown out by the roadside and half-eaten by the
   wolfish dogs. It is not necessary to open the little bundle
   of matting lying by the side of the city wall to know what it
   contains. Shanghai has its hexagonal tower into which their
   bodies can be cast. Nanking has its temple to which may be
   brought any little dead body which the parents care not to bury
   themselves.

    (1601)


                          INFIDELITY ANSWERED

While Ingersoll was still living, in answer to an inquiry by some of
his students as to whether the arguments of Ingersoll are unanswerable,
a college president answered them in the _Andover Review_ as
follows:

   An infidel is an abnormal growth, and nature feels funny once in
   a while and creates a freak, _e.g._, the living skeleton;
   the fat woman, the two-headed girl. So there is about one
   infidel to a million sane men. The most of these noisy fellows
   are amateur infidels. They talk Ingersoll in fair weather and
   pray themselves hoarse every time it thunders. A well-developed
   case of cholera morbus will knock their infidelity out of them,
   and leave them in a cold sweat like a china dog in an ice-house.
   I know them. The most of them are like the boy who runs away
   from home, and comes back to stay with his father nights. Then,
   again, boys, take a look around you when you invest another
   fifty cents to hear Ingersoll talk on “liberty,” and compare the
   crowd with the kind of people you find in almost any church.
   Is it the odor of sanctity you smell? Hardly, boys, hardly.
   But you can eat peanuts there, and choke on the shells, while
   you applaud the funny jokes about heaven where you know in
   your hearts your dear mother is; or hear the humble Nazarene
   ridiculed, who, you think, and always will think, gave a home to
   your weary old father when he left the earth.

    (1602)


                         INFIDELITY REPULSIVE

   The nurse who waited upon Voltaire, the French infidel, during
   his last hours, was requested a few months later to attend
   another infidel in the same city. Her answer was, “I would
   not wait upon another infidel for all the gold of Paris.” All
   infidelity is repulsive. (Text.)

    (1603)


   =Infinitesimal, The=--See LITTLE THINGS.


   =Infirmity, Blind to=--See CONSIDERATENESS.


                               INFLUENCE

   A little clock in a jeweler’s window in a certain Western town
   stopt one day for half an hour, at fifteen minutes of nine.
   School-children, noticing the time, stopt to play; people
   hurrying to the train, looking at the clock, began to walk
   leisurely; professional men, after a look at the clock, stopt to
   chat a minute with one another; working men and women noted the
   time and lingered a little longer in the sunshine, and all were
   half an hour late because one small clock stopt. Never had these
   people known how much they had depended upon that clock till it
   had led them astray.

   Many are thus unconsciously depending upon the influence of
   Christians; you may think you have no influence, but you
   can not go wrong in one little act without leading others
   astray.--Seattle _Churchman_.

    (1604)

   See INDIVIDUAL INFLUENCE; MOTHER’S INFLUENCE.


                            INFLUENCE, BAD

As these wild cattle mentioned below soon demoralize the domestic
herds, so one or two wild youths may draw away many others from safe
paths.

   Much has been written lately about wild horses infesting certain
   mountain ranges of the West and menacing the interest of
   stockmen. A report from a district in the Shasta National Forest
   of California states that wild cattle have become a nuisance.

   These animals are the descendants of domestic cattle, but having
   run without restraint for several generations, have become
   as wild as deer. Stockmen will not apply for ranges infested
   by these cattle, since tame cattle soon adopt the habits of
   their wild relatives and become equally as unmanageable. It is
   impossible to gather young stock in the fall, which have run
   with these animals even for a season.

   The majority of the stockmen desire to shoot them, but certain
   mountain-dwellers claim them, and shoot an occasional one for
   winter beef. The forest officers will, in conjunction with the
   stockmen interested, investigate the matter, and decide upon
   some plan of ridding the forests of this pest.

    (1605)


                          INFLUENCE, CORRUPT

   An American traction-owner, visiting St. Petersburg, was
   imprest with the inadequacy of the horse-car service and
   employed engineers to work out a modern system. Failing to make
   an impression on the local officials, he had abandoned the
   plan when he fell in with a clever Russian who assured him
   that his ignorance of the ways of the country was responsible
   for the failure, and offered to engineer the deal for a part
   interest in the company. The first step was to purchase, for
   several thousand rubles, the sympathy and support of a certain
   _danseuse_ of the capital. Everything went smoothly and
   Witte, the Czar’s Prime Minister, finally wrote a report
   recommending the scheme, and the Czar endorsed on the document:
   “I approve this in every particular.” Thereupon an American
   rival attempted to blackmail the successful franchise-holder.
   When the man refused to be held up the rival set various
   influences at work. A few days later Plehve handed the
   Emperor a report condemning the traction scheme and favoring
   its annulment, across which Nicholas wrote: “I approve this
   report in every particular.” Horse-cars still operate in St.
   Petersburg. (Text.)

    (1606)


                          INFLUENCE, ENDURING

   Whitefield’s influence resembles the gale sweeping over the
   surface of the sea. The effect is instant, and visible to every
   sense. But of Wesley’s work the true symbol is the coral reef,
   built up slowly, and cell by cell, in the sea depths, over
   which the soil forms, and on which great cities will rise and
   unborn nations will live. The one stirred the surface; the
   other built up from the depths, built deeply, and built for all
   time.--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (1607)

   See GREATNESS APPRECIATED.


                           INFLUENCE OF SONG

   It was sunset, and a number of girls, some of whom were
   Sunday-school teachers, were singing at their work in a certain
   factory Bishop Doane’s verses beginning,

    “Softly now the light of day,”

   to the tune of “Holley,” when a Christian woman who was visiting
   the factory was shown the singing girls through an opened door.
   On being told that the singing was now a regular custom with
   the girls, she asked, “Has it made a difference?” Said the
   superintendent who was escorting her around, “There is seldom
   any quarreling or coarse joking among them now.”

    (1608)


                          INFLUENCE, PERSONAL

   Embury was one of a group of Irish-German emigrants to the
   United States in 1764. He settled in New York, but lacked
   courage to begin religious work there, and by a natural and
   inevitable reaction his own religious life began to die.
   Another party of these German-Irish emigrants, from the same
   neighborhood, landed in New York the next year. Among them was
   Barbara Heck, a peasant woman of courageous character and an
   earnest Methodist. Her zeal kindled in womanly vehemence when
   she found the first party of emigrants had practically forgotten
   their Methodism. A familiar but doubtful story relates how she
   went into a room one day where Embury and his companions were
   playing cards. She seized the pack, threw it into the fire, and
   cried to Embury: “You must preach to us or we shall all go to
   hell together; and God will require our blood at your hands.” “I
   can not preach,” stammered the rebuked man, “for I have neither
   chapel nor congregation.” “Preach in your own house,” answered
   Barbara Heck, “and to our own company.” And so the first
   Methodist sermon in America was preached under a private roof
   and to a congregation of five persons.--W. H. FITCHETT,
   “Wesley and His Century.”

    (1609)


                         INFLUENCE, PERVERTING

   The Carnegie Institute has built and fitted out the auxiliary
   steamer _Carnegie_ to investigate the magnetic phenomena
   of the earth. The ship was specially designed so as to contain
   less than six hundred pounds of steel or iron, which would tend
   to deflect her compasses and interfere with the accuracy of
   her magnetic instruments. What is not built of wood is made of
   Victor vanadium bronze.

It would aid men in the guidance of their lives if, in a similar way,
they could eliminate from the mind and character all those elements
that pervert the will and affections toward evil.

    (1610)


                         INFLUENCE, POSTHUMOUS

The good or ill of a man’s life has the habit of following after him,
even tho his efforts have ceased in death. The power of influence which
visibly abides is illustrated by a writer who describes the tracks of
ships at sea being visible by the smooth wakes of oil they leave behind
them, long after they have disappeared:

   I have frequently seen such tracks as Franklin observed out at
   sea, and have climbed to the masthead in order to sight the
   ship that produced them without seeing her. Several of such
   smooth, shining tracks have been observed at the same time, but
   no ship visible, and this in places where no sail has been seen
   for days before or after.

    (1611)

       *       *       *       *       *

   It is being said by many that the present prohibition condition
   in Georgia is due largely to the work of Sam Jones. He died
   October, 1906. Thinking that he was out of the way, the liquor
   men of Bartow County, in June of the following year, determined
   to call a new election under the local option law. It seemed
   to them that they could now win with Sam Jones eliminated. The
   anti-liquors also went to work and did all they could, but were
   not overconfident of victory. The result was astonishing. The
   vote, approximately, was eighty-five for the liquor men and
   1,686 “for Sam Jones and prohibition.” His name had been mounted
   on the ballots, and it had worked like magic. This news gave
   courage to other counties and one after another banished liquor,
   till the whole State shook off the monster. Is there anywhere a
   more striking example of the influence of the good man who keeps
   pegging away? A good life can never die. (Text.)

    (1612)


   =Influence, Unconscious=--See CONSISTENCY.


                         INFLUENCE, UNNOTICED

   Wesley declares that he owed his conversion to the teaching of
   Peter Bohler. What, then, exactly was that teaching? Bohler did
   unconsciously the supreme work of his life during these few days
   in London and at Oxford when he was conversing with Wesley. The
   humble-minded Moravian, wise only in spiritual science, touches
   Wesley--and then vanishes! But he helped to change the religious
   history of England, little as he himself dreamed of it.--W.
   H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (1613)


   =Influences=--See ENVIRONMENT.


   =Information, Misleading=--See HOLDING THEIR OWN.


   =Information, The Passion for=--See BOOK-STUDY.


                               INGENUITY

   To enlist rats in the construction of telephone systems may
   sound empirical to the electrical engineer, but the familiar
   pest has been found a valuable assistant in this work. To
   stimulate, however, it is necessary to introduce his traditional
   enemy, the ferret. Then the process is simple. The subterranean
   tubes for the reception of the cables having been laid, a rat
   is let loose at the starting-point. Having run a little way, a
   trained ferret, with a string to his leg, is turned in after
   him. The tubes run into manholes at intervals, and the rat,
   furtively glancing back, sees the glaring eyes of his arch foe
   rapidly approaching. By the end of the section of tube the rat
   is either overtaken or falls into the manhole, and then another
   rat is requisitioned to run the next block. At the end of each
   section the string is removed from the ferret’s leg, and a small
   rope, which is then attached to the other end of the string, is
   hauled through.--_Sound Waves._

    (1614)

       *       *       *       *       *

   During some recent investigations of spider life a Washington
   scientist gained some interesting knowledge concerning the
   ingenuity of a spider.

   It had become necessary in the course of the experiment to
   employ a basin wherein a stick was fastened upright like a mast.
   Enough water was placed in the basin to convert the little stick
   into the only point of safety for the spider.

   The spider was placed on the mast. As soon as he was fairly
   isolated he anxiously commenced to run to find the mainland. He
   would scamper down the mast to the water, stick out a foot, get
   it wet, shake it, run around the stick to try the other side,
   and then run back to the top.

   As it very soon became plain to the spider that his position
   was an extremely delicate one, he sat down to think it over.
   Suddenly he seemed to have an idea. Up he went, like a rocket,
   to the top of the mast, where he began a series of gymnastics.
   He held one foot in the air, then another, and turned round
   many times. By this time he was thoroughly excited, much to the
   perplexity of the scientist, who began to wonder what the spider
   had discovered. Finally, it was apparent that the clever little
   fellow had found that the draft of air caused by an open window
   would carry a line ashore whereby he could escape from his
   perilous position.

   Accordingly he pushed out a thread that went floating in the
   air, and lengthened and lengthened until at last it caught
   on a near-by table. Then the ingenious spider hauled on his
   rope till it was tight, struck it several times to ascertain
   whether it was strong enough to hold his weight, and then
   walked ashore. The scientist decided that he was entitled to his
   liberty.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (1615)

       *       *       *       *       *

Haydn and Mozart were great friends. When either had composed a
masterpiece, the other was invited to the house of the composer to
enjoy the first sweetness. The following story is from _The Boy’s
World_:

   It chanced to be Haydn’s turn, and Mozart came full of
   expectation. Contrary to custom, Haydn invited his guest to
   give his interpretation of the theme instead of playing it
   over himself. Much pleased at the compliment, Mozart played
   brilliantly, for the work was beautiful and his musician’s soul
   was stirred. Suddenly he halted and looked across the piano at
   his friend.

   “There’s a mistake here,” he said, “a passage written for three
   hands would be impossible for a soloist. Of course, those notes
   must come out.

   “Oh!” said Haydn, quietly, “I can play it.”

   Mozart laughed. “My friend, you have not three hands.”

   “Perhaps not,” answered Haydn, with a quiet smile.
   “Nevertheless, I contend that I can play the passage, otherwise
   I would not have written it.”

   “A challenge!” cried Mozart. “Prove your word.”

   He yielded his place at the piano.

   His excitement rose as Haydn reached the disputed passage, when,
   to his amazement, the composer brought his nose to the keyboard,
   and the notes rang out clear and true.

    (1616)


                              INGRATITUDE

   On the plains and along the broad bottoms of the Missouri
   River are the colonies--often a community of many members,
   with villages of wide extent--of the American marmots, or
   prairie-dogs. Merry, cheery, chipper little fellows these
   gregarious villagers sit on the mound above or beside the open
   door that leads to their comfortable subterranean dwellings, and
   hold converse in short not unmusical barks, each greeting his
   neighbor and rejoicing in the sunshine. But into the sanctity
   of the home which he and his have constructed with much labor,
   the burrowing owl comes, uninvited, and becomes a tenant with a
   life lease, without so much as “by your leave”; and one of the
   most atrocious results of this swindling arrangement is that the
   dog (a strict vegetarian) finds that the owl, whose young shares
   the nest with the infant marmots, feeds upon them and rears
   its young upon the bodies of the children of its victimized
   landlord.--Mrs. M. J. GORTON, _Popular Science
   News_.

    (1617)


                        INHERITED PECULIARITIES

   No study is more fascinating than the study of the laws of
   heredity. When a baby is born almost the first question is,
   “Whom does he resemble?” For months and years friends peer into
   the child’s face to discover, if possible, the family likeness.
   It has its mother’s eyes or its father’s mouth. If no marked
   resemblance can be found, the comment is, “How singular that
   this child is unlike every one in the family.” Resemblance is
   strange, but the absence of it, is more strange. A physical
   feature appears and reappears for generations. A delicate ear,
   looking like a translucent shell, is exactly reproduced. In some
   instances a generation is skipt, and then the likeness comes
   out again. A faded portrait or a medallion two hundred years
   old is brought to light, and in it you see the young man who
   stands by your side looking at it. Appetite for strong drink
   is found to exist in a whole family. Many a son inherits from
   his father tastes which almost inevitably produce the habit of
   intemperance. One of the most fearful woes of drunkenness is
   that it is entailed, and may become more terrible in the son
   than it was in the father. Strong animal passions predominate
   in some families, so that the sins of the fathers are repeated
   in the sons and grandsons. The expressions “good blood,” and
   “bad blood,” bear testimony to these well-known laws. In view of
   these facts, the questions we ask are in substance the questions
   of the disciples, “Where does the responsibility rest? Is there
   any blame? Is there any release? What does the religion of Jesus
   Christ say to these undeniable facts? Can it do anything to
   change them?” Upon us, as we are, with our natural and inherited
   characteristics, Christ performs His saving work. And it is
   matter of common observation, as undeniable as the facts of
   which we have been thinking, that those who truly become the
   servants of Christ are changed in this very respect, that they
   obtain genuine control over their inherited faults.--GEORGE
   HARRIS, _Andover Review_.

    (1618)


   =Inharmony=--See DUALITY.


   =Inhumanity=--See ANIMALS, ABSURD FONDNESS FOR; SLAVE TRADE,
      ATROCITIES OF.


                              INITIATIVE

Charlotte Perkins Stetson writes of an experience in the following
lines:

    It takes great strength to train
    To modern service your ancestral brain;
    To lift the weight of the unnumbered years
    Of dead men’s habits, methods, and ideas;
    To hold that back with one hand, and support
    With the other the weak steps of the new thought.
    It takes great strength to bring your life up square
    With your accepted thought and hold it there;
    Resisting the inertia that drags back
    From new attempts to the old habit’s track.
    It is so easy to drift back, to sink;
    So hard to live abreast of what you think.

    But the best courage man has ever shown
    Is daring to cut loose and think alone.
    Dark are the unlit chambers of clear space
    Where light shines back from no reflecting face.
    Our sun’s wide glare, our heaven’s shining blue,
    We owe to fog and dust they fumble through;
    And our rich wisdom that we treasure so
    Shines from the thousand things that we don’t know.
    But to think new--it takes a courage grim
    As led Columbus over the world’s rim.
    To think it cost some courage. And to go--
    Try it. It takes every power you know.

    (1619)


                          INITIATIVE, LACK OF

That which is recorded of the telephone girl below is true of great
numbers of both sexes in every walk of life. Patients in hospitals soon
learn that “trained” nurses will never willingly do anything outside
the routine of their directions, which they take mostly from the
bulletin-boards. It is said of some physicians that they would prefer
that their patients should die regularly rather than get well under an
unaccredited practitioner.

   A Philadelphia telephone girl refused to make connection with
   the Fire Department because the man at the other end of the
   line had not the necessary nickel to put in the slot. At the
   Earlswood Idiot Asylum, England, we saw several idiots who had
   been trained to “self-support under direction,” but they had no
   power of self-reliance; indeed, the superintendent informed us
   that up to that time there had been quite a number who could
   automatically do things after much training, but only three in
   the history of the institution (which was then comparatively
   young) had been trained to be self-reliant. A reasonable amount
   of common sense ought to be required of telephone girls or men.
   This girl’s stupid blunder nearly cost a life.

    (1620)


                         INJUDICIOUS KINDNESS

Men ought not only to be kind and friendly, but to be judicious in the
way they manifest their regard.

   At the camp-fire and dinner of the Eleventh Army Corps in
   New York recently, Gen. James Grant Wilson, as reported in
   _Tobacco_, told how General Grant became the inveterate smoker
   that he was. He said that after the Fort Donelson fight the
   newspapers all over the North were filled with the story of how
   the silent captain had fought that fight with an unlighted cigar
   in his mouth. “Up to that time,” said General Wilson, “General
   Grant never smoked more than two cigars a day in his life. When
   the people of the North found that their commander evidently
   liked cigars, loyal souls from every great Northern city sent
   in cigars to Grant’s headquarters until he had piled up in his
   tent 20,000 cigars. He felt that it would not be polite to
   return them or to give them away, so the only thing to do was to
   smoke them. That was the beginning of it, and it ended with the
   smoking of something like a bunch of cigars every day.”

    (1621)


   =Injurious, The, Made Valuable=--See PROFIT FROM PESTS.


                            INJURY TO SELF

   John Chrysostom, from a little town in the Taurus Mountains
   named Cucusus, to which he had been banished by Arcadius,
   addrest a treatise to Olympias entitled, “None Can Hurt a Man
   Who Will Not Hurt Himself.” Later, dying from cruel exposure,
   the last moments of this holy man were spent in praising God and
   admonishing his companions, and his last words were, “I have
   never been hurt, because I have not hurt myself.” (Text.)

    (1622)


                               INJUSTICE

Judge Ben B. Lindsey, in _The Survey_, tells of a visit he made to
a refined and lovely home in a large city in the East:

   The people in that home were wealthy, and undoubtedly sincere in
   their self-righteousness; and in the happiness they found in the
   little charities they provided for the children of the workers
   in the mills and mines near by. The fathers earned $1.50 a day,
   worked long hours, shared all the hazards of their employment.
   My ten years’ experience in juvenile court work compelled me to
   admit that the powers that made valuable the stocks and bonds
   whence the wealth of this home came would be arrayed against any
   measure in the Legislature that would do economic justice to
   the parents of these children. It seemed strange to me that our
   kind-hearted, wealthy family, with morning prayers and regular
   church attendance, could not see something in the teaching of
   the Master beyond the kind of charity I have mentioned. I could
   not help but find a real meaning in some of the platitudes;
   “Equal rights to all, special privileges to none”; “Bear ye one
   another’s burdens”; “Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us
   from evil”; “Thy kingdom come--on earth.” How much was there of
   the real doing of the word? How well was it understood?

    (1623)

       *       *       *       *       *

A California paper recently said:

   Eight years in prison for stealing eight copper cents from an
   Oakland store was the punishment dealt out to George Gron, who
   with a companion entered the store. Gron pleaded guilty. This
   sentence is in startling contrast to a year and a half given to
   J. Dalzell Brown, who wrecked the California Safe Deposit and
   Trust Company and robbed 1,200 depositors of nearly $9,000,000.
   Brown was tried only on one count, and he is now in charge
   of a deputy, enjoying the holidays because of his promise to
   give testimony against others in the bank wreck. All the other
   indictments against Brown have been dismist.

    (1624)

   See WOMEN, INJUSTICE TO.


   =Innate Receptivity to Evil=--See DISEASE, CAUSES OF.


                              INNATE, THE

As in the case of the little girl mentioned below, we have to guard,
not alone against the acts of evil men, but against what is in the men
themselves:

   “Come on! come on!” said a gentleman to a little girl at whom a
   dog had been barking furiously. “Come on! he’s quiet now.”

   “Ah, but,” said the little girl, “the barks are in him still.”

    (1625)


                              INNER LIFE

   I was lately in a grove where a number of large sycamores were
   shedding their bark; at least three layers of the bark showed
   plainly, the coarse outer bark brown, but this shed in large
   spots or blotches, exposing the white inner bark, so well known
   in this great tree; but this also was peeling up, and falling
   here and there, and showing the clear, green inmost bark of the
   tree; the outer layers ripening, drying, dying, and falling off,
   but the inmost bark strengthening and renewing itself day by day.

   But I was imprest with the fresh, wholesome look of these
   sycamores. Many trees of that name seem dying; not so those
   where the decaying outer bark was loosening and dropping, while
   the fresh young inner bark was coming out to take its place. I
   never saw healthier trees. They certainly were not hide-bound.
   I believe the quick dropping of the old bark gave the vigorous
   inner bark a chance to come out and strengthen, just as we
   know trials and afflictions often bring out the inner life in
   beauty and strength.--FRANKLIN NOBLE, “Sermons in
   Illustration.”

    (1626)


   =Inner Strength=--See REPUTATION AND CHARACTER.


                             INNER VALUES

    Not in the clamor of the crowded street,
    Not in the shouts and plaudits of the throng,
    But in ourselves, are triumph and defeat.

    --LONGFELLOW.

    (1627)


   =Innocence=--See CIRCUMSTANCES.


                              INOCULATION

Jesus taught that human lives can be redeemed from sterility to
fruitfulness, by an infusion of diverse life. Why should not this
principle be even more valuable in morals than in nature?

   “To inoculate sterile ground and make it bring forth fruit
   in abundance is one of the latest achievements of American
   science,” says G. H. Grosvenor in _The National Geographic
   Magazine_. “Some of man’s most dread diseases--smallpox,
   diphtheria, plague, rabies--have been vanquished by inoculation,
   and now inoculation is to cure soil that has been worn out and
   make it fertile and productive again. The germs that bring
   fertility are mailed by the Department of Agriculture in a
   small package like a yeast-cake. The cake contains millions of
   dried germs. The farmer who receives the cake drops it into a
   barrel of clean water; the germs are revived and soon turns
   the water to a milky white. Seeds of clover, peas, alfalfa,
   or other leguminous plants that are then soaked in this milky
   preparation are endowed with marvelous strength. Land on which,
   for instance, the farmer with constant toil had obtained alfalfa
   only a few inches high, when planted with these inoculated seeds
   will produce alfalfa several feet high and so rich that the
   farmer does not recognize his crop.” (Text.)

    (1628)


                               INSANITY

Felix was so crazed by sin as to be incapable of judging of Paul’s
sanity. Here is an analogy from nature:

   The abominable Mexican plant known as the loco-weed has the
   peculiar property of making irrational both men and beasts who
   partake of it. Horses and cattle out on the prairies after
   grazing upon it go crazy, and a “locoed” pony will perform all
   kinds of queer antics. It is said that if a man comes under
   its spell he never regains his senses, the insanity produced
   by it being incurable. It is said that the loss of mind of the
   illfated Carlotta was no doubt due to the fact that some enemy
   drugged her with a preparation of loco, altho history has it
   that she went insane by reason of her husband’s execution.

    (1629)

   See CONCERT, LACK OF.


                            INSANITY CURED

  [Illustration]

   An instance of a family of insane dependents illustrates the
   operation of stress and strain to render a psychopathic family
   helpless and make it dependent upon the State. This family
   consists of an inebriate father who married a normal woman with
   two insane brothers. The father has an insane brother. From
   this union sprang three children, all of whom have been insane
   from time to time, and who alternated in residence at a State
   hospital as committed insane patients, joined at intervals by
   their uncles, and once by their father. The superintendent of
   the hospital retained the father in custody until he could put
   him in good condition, mentally, morally and physically, and
   discharged him in such form that for the first time in the
   recollection of the family he has been sober, industrious and
   kind. He has paid off a mortgage on the farm and is putting
   money in the bank. The conditions of this family are shown in
   above chart.

   The two sons are working and there is an atmosphere of peace
   and happiness in the home. Two uncles remained under care,
   but all the members of one household are out of the hospital.
   If a wise hospital superintendent can solve such a difficult
   problem, the result can be duplicated in many instances by
   field physicians working in consonance with after-care people.
   Actual prophylactic work will be impossible under close medical
   and lay organization, and definite results be reached. The
   discharged patient will return to fewer difficulties. The
   improved environment will produce fewer patients.--ALBERT W.
   FERRIS.

    (1630)


                        INSANITY, STATISTICS OF

   The United States Census gives the following facts about
   insanity in the United States:

    Total Insane:

    1890 In hospitals  74,028.  Total 106,485.
    1906 In hospitals 150,151. (Total not given).
    1903 Males in Hospital       78,523
         Females                 71,628

      Hospitals:
         Public, 226; private, 102.

   Twenty-two and one-half per cent. of the insane were persons in
   some out of door occupation and 16 per cent. in manufacturing or
   some indoor occupation, but the proportion in each case to the
   whole number respectively so employed is not given.

   The percentage proportioned to population of whites is greater
   than of blacks. None of the insane reported were under twelve
   years of age.

    (1631)


   =Inscrutability of God=--See GOD’S INSCRUTABILITY.


                            INSECT, A MODEL

   Mark Isambard Brunel, the great engineer, was standing one
   day, about three-quarters of a century ago, in a ship-yard
   watching the movements of an animal known as the _Teredo
   navales_--in English, the naval wood-worm--when a brilliant
   thought suddenly occurred to him. He saw that this creature
   bored its way into the piece of wood upon which it was operating
   by means of a very extraordinary mechanical apparatus. Looking
   at the animal attentively through a microscope, he found that it
   was covered in front with a pair of valvular shells; that with
   its foot as a purchase, it communicated a rotary motion and a
   forward impulse to the valves, which, acting upon the wood like
   a gimlet, penetrated its substance; and that as the particles of
   wood were loosened, they passed through a fissure in the foot
   and thence through the body of the borer to its mouth, where
   they were expelled. “Here,” said Brunel to himself, “is the
   sort of thing I want. Can I reproduce it in artificial form?”
   He forthwith set to work, and the final result of his labors,
   after many failures, was the famous boring-shield with which
   the Thames tunnel was excavated. This story was told by Brunel
   himself, and there is no reason to doubt its truth. The keen
   observer can draw useful lessons from the humblest of the works
   of God.--New York _Ledger_.

    (1632)


                        INSECTS OF REMOTE TIMES

   Discoveries in the coal-mines of central France have furnished
   by far the greatest advance that has ever been made in our
   knowledge of the insects which inhabited the world millions
   of years, as geologists believe, before the time when man
   made his appearance upon the earth. In that wonderful age
   when the carboniferous plants, whose remains constitute the
   coal-beds of to-day, were alive and flourishing, the air and
   the soil were animated by the presence of flies, grasshoppers,
   cockroaches, dragon-flies, spiders, locusts, and scores of
   other species which exist but slightly changed at the present
   time. But the insects of those remote times attained a gigantic
   size, some of the dragon-flies measuring two feet from tip
   to tip of their expanded wings. The remains of these insects
   have been marvelously preserved in the strata of coal and
   rock.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (1633)


   =Insecurity=--See HUMAN NATURE, INSECURITY OF.


                       INSENSITIVENESS TO BEAUTY

   I remember walking at night with a good fellow by the side of
   a transparent sea; nothing was heard but the eternal murmur of
   the restless waters on the pebbles; a full moon was making a
   path of heavenly splendor across the waves. It was a night of
   supernatural beauty--a night in whose silence all the voices of
   the universe were speaking to the soul. His complaint was that
   there was no band. (Text.)

    (1634)


   =Insignificance=--See RESOURCES, GOD’S.


                              INSINCERITY

   There is no place where human nature can be studied to better
   advantage, or public opinion be more quickly ascertained, than
   in the office of a railroad president. It helps the railway
   president if he is also a politician and a man of the world. The
   experience tends to cynicism and cultivates the theory which
   gives too great prominence to the influence of association
   and point of view in fixing creeds, faiths, churchmanship and
   partizanship. The visitor always tried to make the president
   believe that he came for some other purpose than the real object
   of his mission. Why men believe they can succeed better in what
   they seek by this sort of fraud, is a mystery. The most curious
   exhibit is the man of many millions, who pretends that he wishes
   to consult you in regard to investments in the securities of
   your company, and ends by asking for a pass.--CHAUNCEY M.
   DEPEW.

    (1635)


   =Inspection, Careful Food=--See BUYING, GOOD.


                              INSPIRATION

The following lines on “Inspiration” were penned by Bishop Doane, of
Albany, N. Y.:

    Chisel in hand stood a sculptor boy,
      With his marble block before him;
    And his face lit up with a smile of joy
      As an angel dream passed o’er him.
    He carved that dream on the yielding stone
      With many a sharp incision;
    In heaven’s own light the sculptor shone,
      He had caught that angel vision.

    Sculptors of life are we, as we stand,
      With our lives uncarved before us;
    Waiting the hour when, at God’s command,
      Our life dream passes o’er us.
    Let us carve it then on the yielding stone,
      With many a sharp incision;
    Its heavenly beauty shall be our own--
      Our lives, that angel vision.

    (1636)


   =Inspiration from Things Done=--See ABILITY, GAGE OF.


                         INSPIRATION OF EVENTS

   On the 19th of April, 1861, some of the enthusiastic Southern
   sympathizers of Baltimore, driven frantic by the passage of
   Northern troops through the city for the invasion of the South,
   attacked the Sixth Regiment of Massachusetts volunteers with
   bricks and stones as they marched along Pratt Street to take the
   train at Camden Station for Washington. The soldiers, who were
   fully armed with Springfield rifles, fired upon the citizens,
   killing several and wounding many others, some of whom had taken
   no part in the affray, but were merely distant spectators.

   When this news was flashed around the land, it reached a young
   Baltimorean, a professor in Poydras College at Pointe Coupée,
   one hundred and twenty miles above New Orleans. His heart fired
   with patriotic enthusiasm and the great thoughts that surged
   through his mind kept him awake all night. At dawn he sat down
   at his desk and wrote “Maryland, My Maryland.” It was first
   published in the New Orleans _Delta_. In a few weeks it was
   copied by all the leading newspapers of the South, and James R.
   Randall, like Byron, awoke one morning and found himself famous.

    (1637)


                        INSPIRATION, SOURCE OF

   A soul that is sensitive to truth is easily excited to emotion
   and incited to effort. Haydn, it is said, had his musical genius
   aroused by the brilliancy of a diamond ring he wore, the gift of
   Frederick the Great.

We confer a greater blessing on our fellow men when by any act, or even
by any look, we draw out what is in them, than when we bestow any gift
or favor upon them.

    (1638)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The famous operatic composers had different methods of getting
   inspiration for their immortal compositions. One could not
   write the score unless he had a cat upon his shoulders. There
   are in his symphonies suggestions of an orchestra which every
   one of us born in the country recognizes as the familiar strain
   of a summer’s night; another could stir his genius best at the
   billiard-table, and in his refrains is heard the rattling fire
   of the ivory balls; while a third, by walks in the woods and
   communing with nature, transferred to the orchestra and chorus
   the sublime secrets of creation.--CHAUNCEY M. DEPEW.

    (1639)


                              INSTABILITY

   Society is curst with young men and women who are driven and
   tossed by every wind. I would as soon think of anchoring an
   ocean-liner to a fog-bank instead of a rock as to anchor a
   reform, a useful club, a great movement or church to their lives
   and leadership.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1640)


                               INSTINCT

Man is gifted with the supreme endowment of reason. This marks
humanity off from all the rest of the animal creation. But the Creator
institutes a law of compensation. There are certain powers and
faculties in inferior creatures which have never been evolved in man,
and which are plainly evidences of supernatural power applied for the
benefit of beings denied the prerogative of reason.

   How does it come about that if a salmon is taken when only a
   few months old from its native fjord on the coast of Norway,
   and marked and then sent into the sea again, it may, after
   traversing the ocean for thousands of miles, be found again
   the next year in that same fjord? It has returned without fail
   to its birthplace. The reason is that God gave it a miraculous
   guide-book called instinct. How comes it that when, in a
   beehive, the temperature rises so that the wax might melt, every
   tenth bee glues its feet down to the board, and fans with its
   wings at a tremendous velocity as long as may be necessary? It
   is because God gave this little creature the same infallible
   guide-book. How is it that the same pairs of swallows return all
   the way from Africa to rear a fresh family in the same old nests
   under the eaves? It is because that same miraculous instinct led
   them unerringly. (Text.)

    (1641)


                     INSTINCT ADAPTED TO EMERGENCY

In guarding against evils should we not be as fertile in expedients to
adapt our defense to the kind of weapons we possess as some cattle are:

   The plainsmen on Western cattle-ranches have called attention
   to an illustration of the adaptability of animal instinct to
   emergencies.

   The cattle of former days were of the long-horned kind. When the
   herd was threatened with an attack by wolves, the calves were
   placed in the middle of the bunch and the older animals formed
   themselves into a solid phalanx about them, all facing outward.

   The cattle of to-day are largely hornless. If, as occasionally
   happens still, the herd is attacked by wolves, the calves are
   guarded as before, but the herd faces in instead of out. Their
   hoofs, not their horns, are now their weapons.

    (1642)


   =Instinct of Animals=--See FAITH BETTER THAN SIGHT.


   =Instinct of Insects=--See SHELTER.


                         INSTINCT, THE HOMING

   A well-known minister of Austin, Texas, retells a story which
   was related to him by a friend living in Lawrence, Massachusetts:

   “He raised a dog, crossed with hound and pointer, and littered
   in Lawrence. When a year old he took the young dog to Boston,
   got on board of a sailing-vessel, went by sea and river to
   Bangor, Maine, drove forty miles into the woods at Cleveland’s
   Camp and hunted there two weeks, the dog proving to be a great
   success for quick, fast runs and returns to camp.

   “After the hunting was over and while on his back trip to
   Bangor, the dog jumped from the wagon into the bushes, having
   heard or smelled a deer, and went off on a hot chase. The boats
   ran only once in two weeks, so that, much as he valued the
   dog, it was necessary to go on. He took the boat at Bangor,
   returned by river and sea to Boston and back to Lawrence. About
   two weeks afterward the dog crawled into his yard, footsore
   and half-starved, but safe at home and glad to get back.”
   (Text.)--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (1643)

   See DIRECTION, SENSE OF.


   =Instruction=--See FOOD AND EXERCISE.


                              INSTRUMENTS

   When Saladin looked at the sword of Richard the Lion-Hearted,
   he wondered that a blade so ordinary should have wrought such
   mighty deeds. The English King bared his arm and said: “It was
   not the sword that did these things; it was the arm of Richard.”

    (1644)


                    INSTRUMENTS, IMPORTANCE OF GOOD

   Dr. Z. F. Vaughn, well known in medical and scientific circles,
   has perfected a process for tempering to the hardness of steel
   the ductile metals, gold, silver and copper. Already Dr. Vaughn
   is manufacturing a large number of gold-bladed scalpels, probes,
   hypodermic and suture needles and other surgical instruments.
   These are replacing similar articles of steel.

   The sharp edge of a gold blade is almost perfectly smooth; that
   of steel, no matter how fine the edge, is rough and saw-like.
   Because it is porous, the steel blade has never made a perfect
   surgical instrument. In the meshes of that metal may be hidden
   the infinitesimal germs of a virulent disease, or there may be a
   rust spot so tiny that it could not be discerned by the surgeon,
   but which might be sufficient seriously to poison the tissues in
   which the knife makes a wound, resulting in blood-poisoning that
   would cause death. In gold, being dense, this danger does not
   exist, and gold does not rust.

   Besides, the gold blade divides evenly the flesh or tissue which
   it cuts; the steel blade really saws or tears its way through.
   Therefore, even when there is no infection, the wound made with
   a steel instrument does not heal nearly so readily as that made
   with gold. Another feature of a gold blade is that the wound
   which it makes leaves no scar.

    (1645)


                              INSULATION

   In 1846 Werner Siemens, of Berlin, discovered the non-conducting
   properties of gutta-percha. He coated several miles of copper
   wire with gutta-percha, and submerged it in the Rhine from Deutz
   to Cologne. Electric communication was thus established beneath
   the water from shore to shore. In 1850 a submarine cable was
   laid across the English Channel from Dover to Cape Grisnez.
   It consisted of a half-inch copper wire covered with nothing
   but gutta-percha, and loaded with lead to keep it down. The
   communication was perfect for a day, and then the wire refused
   to act. The electrical engineers were unable to explain the
   facts. At last the mystery was dissipated by a fisherman. A
   French fisherman set his trawl off Cape Grisnez. When he hauled
   it in, he picked up the submerged cable, from which he cut off
   a piece. This piece he carried in triumph to Bologne, where
   he exhibited it as a specimen of rare seaweed with its center
   filled with gold. The ignorant man had mistaken the copper wire
   for gold, but unwittingly he had served the electricians. They
   saw from the accident that it was not sufficient perfectly to
   insulate the cable, but that it must also be protected. In
   1851 there was laid across the Channel a cable twenty-four
   miles long, consisting of four copper wires, insulated by
   gutta-percha, covered with tarred yarn, and protected by an
   outer covering of galvanized iron wires. That submarine cable
   proved a success, and ocean telegraphy became possible through
   an accident which compelled invention.--_Youth’s Companion._

    (1646)


                               INTEGRITY

   Stephen V. White, a New York financier, became involved and
   only able to pay thirty-five cents on the dollar. His character
   for honesty and integrity was so established that his creditors
   gave him an absolute, legal release from an indebtedness of
   almost a million. Within about a year he repaid principal and
   interest.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (1647)


                        INTEGRITY, EVIDENCE OF

   Samuel Appleton, when twenty-eight years old, began the
   business of cotton manufacturing. He was incapable of anything
   indirect or underhand. He knew but one way of speaking, and
   that was to speak the truth. As an evidence of the way in
   which he was regarded: when a note purporting to be signed by
   him was pronounced by him a forgery, altho no one was able to
   distinguish one handwriting from the other, the jury found a
   verdict in his favor, because they were quite sure that Mr.
   Appleton would not dispute the payment except upon the certainty
   of his not making it.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character
   Lessons.”

    (1648)


   =Intelligence=--See KNOWLEDGE VALUES.


                         INTELLIGENCE, ANIMAL

   One of the many delusions engendered by our human self-conceit
   and habit of considering the world as only such as we know
   it from our human point of view, is that of supposing human
   intelligence to be the only kind of intelligence in existence.
   The fact is, that what we call the lower animals have special
   intelligence of their own as far transcending our intelligence
   as our peculiar reasoning intelligence exceeds theirs. We are
   as incapable of following the track of a friend by the smell of
   his footsteps as a dog is of writing a metaphysical treatise.
   (Text.)--W. MATTIEU WILLIAMS, “Science in Short
   Chapters.”

    (1649)


   =Intelligence in Creation=--See DESIGN IN NATURE.


   =Intelligence in Rooks=--See ENEMIES, AVOIDING.


                       INTELLIGENCE IN SOLDIERS

The American Army is regarded as formidable because “its bayonets
think.” That they thought and acted to some purpose was shown in many
exigencies of the Civil war, as the following, told by Gen. Carl Schurz:

   One of General Butler’s staff-officers told me a little story
   which illustrates the character of our volunteer regiments.
   When our troops took possession of Annapolis, there was but one
   locomotive in the railroad shop, and that locomotive had been
   partly taken to pieces by the “rebel sympathizers” of the place,
   in order to make it unfit for use. A volunteer regiment was
   drawn up in line, and men who thought themselves able to repair
   a locomotive were called for. A dozen or more privates stept
   forward, and one of them exclaimed: “Why, that locomotive was
   built in my shop!” In a short time the locomotive was again in
   working order.

    (1650)


   =Intelligence in Storks=--See FAMILY OFFENSE IN STORKS.


                    INTELLIGENCE OUTDOING IGNORANCE

   In Togoland there is a large tree which is worshiped by all the
   inhabitants as a god named Azago. He is the giver of children,
   and crops, and all blessings. No one is permitted to eat
   fresh yams until the priest of Azago announces that the god
   has partaken of them. A dreadful fatality will follow such a
   disobedience. One year a pupil in a mission school ate a yam
   before the appointed time, and his distracted parents looked for
   his death and for all calamities to come--but the boy prospered
   and grew fat, and none of his kindred died. The next year all
   the children of that mission school ate yams before permission
   was given by the priest of Azago, and none perished. The people
   wanted also to eat, but the priest warned them that the God
   of the mission schools was greater than Azago, so the mission
   children could eat yams with impunity, but not so the general
   populace. But from that time the power of the superstition
   declined, and recently when one of the priests died the elders
   decided to forsake Azago and serve the living, true God. (Text.)

    (1651)


INTEMPERANCE

Lilla N. Cushman furnished to the Chicago _Sun_ a bit of verse for
possible blackboard use on the wine glass:

    =There’s danger in the glass! Beware=
    lest it enslaves. They who have drained
    it find, alas! too often, early graves.
      It sparkles to allure, with its rich, ruby
      light; there is no antidote or cure,
        only its course to fight. It changes
        men to brutes; makes women bow
          their head; fills homes with anguish,
          want, disputes, and takes
            from children bread. Then
            dash the glass away, and
              from the serpent flee;
              drink pure, cold water
                        day
                        by
                        day,
                        and
                        walk
                =God’s footstool free.=

    (Text.)

    (1652)

       *       *       *       *       *

   “Will alcohol dissolve sugar?”

   “It will,” replied Old Soak; “it will dissolve gold and brick
   houses, and horses, and happiness, and love and everything else
   worth having.” (Text.)--Houston _Post_.

    (1653)

   See BEER, EFFECT OF; DRINK, DRUNKENNESS; EVIDENCE, LIVING;
     INEBRIETY, INCURABLE; SIDE, CHOOSING THE RIGHT.


                       INTEMPERANCE IN OLD DAYS

   When wooden ship-building was the staple trade of the river
   Wear, in England, says an English exchange, when an extra-sized
   ship was launched all the day-schools in the town got a holiday.
   It was on these occasions that the ship-builders provided an
   unlimited supply of beer to all comers, and it was a recognized
   rule of Wearside that members of the churches or chapel were
   privileged to get drunk without losing their membership.

    (1654)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In medieval times the farmers brewed good brown ale and took it
   to the churchyard in barrels, which were tapped on the spot.
   The neighbors then said to one another: “Come hither; there
   be a church-ale toward yonder.” They paid for the beer, and
   the rector’s churchwarden kept the tale of incoming moneys.
   Easter-ales, Whitsun-ales, church-ales, even bride-ales
   to help a penniless marriage--all were merry meetings in
   churchyard or church which all the inhabitants were bidden to
   attend at a charge of one penny. Tho they had grown to unruly
   revels, they were not finally supprest till the time of the
   Commonwealth.--EDWARD GILLIAT, “Heroes of Modern
   Crusades.”

    (1655)


                         INTEMPERANCE IN SONS

Rev. W. F. Crafts says:

   Recently, in a New England manufacturing city, we noted a change
   that bodes no good for business or politics or religion. We
   found that the old men who founded and developed the mills were
   all total abstainers and had been from youth, but their sons,
   who were succeeding to these great responsibilities, had nearly
   all of them come back from college with drinking habits.

    (1656)


   =Intemperate Living=--See LONGEVITY ACCOUNTED FOR.


                               INTENSITY

   In the concluding chapters of Ellen Terry’s memoirs
   (_McClure’s Magazine_), she writes of the last days of
   Henry Irving. The doctor had warned Irving not to play “The
   Bells” again after an illness that attacked him in the spring of
   1905. He saw the “terrible emotional strain ‘The Bells’ put upon
   Henry”--how he never could play the part of _Matthias_ “on
   his head,” as he could _Louis XI_, for example. Miss Terry
   goes on in words almost implying that _Matthias_ killed
   him. We read:

   “Every time he heard the sound of bells, the throbbing of his
   heart must have nearly killed him. He used always to turn quite
   white--there was no trick about it. It was imagination acting
   physically on the body.

   “His death as _Matthias_--the death of a strong, robust
   man--was different from all his other stage deaths. He did
   really almost die--he imagined his death with such horrible
   intensity. His eyes would disappear upward, his face grow gray,
   his limbs cold.

   “No wonder, then, that the first time that the Wolverhampton
   doctor’s warning was disregarded, and Henry played ‘The Bells,’
   at Bradford, his heart could not stand the strain. Within
   twenty-four hours of his death as _Matthias_, he was dead.”

    (1657)


                               INTENTION

While “we have this treasure in earthen vessels” we can never fully
manifest the best that is in us. Benjamin R. Bulkeley tells us in the
following verse that God knows how much better we intend than we can do:

    There was never a song that was sung by thee,
    But a sweeter one was meant to be.
    There was never a deed that was grandly done,
    But a greater was meant by some earnest one,
    For the sweetest voice can never impart
    The song that trembles within the heart.

    And the brain and the hand can never quite do
    The thing that the soul has fondly in view.
    And hence are the tears and the burdens of pain,
    For the shining goals are never to gain,
    But enough that a God can hear and see
    The song and the deed that were meant to be.

    (1658)


   =Interception=--See INTERRUPTION.


   =Intercession=--See SACRIFICIAL MEDIATION.


                            INTERDEPENDENCE

   Every great newspaper periodically announces its dependence
   upon immature, half-grown boys, whose nimble steps and strident
   voices secure its circulation. The brain which forges the
   editorial, the skill which administers the counting-room,
   however great, imposing, or commanding, must doff its hat
   of necessity to the barefooted newsboy and confess its
   obligation to him in his obscurity for its chance to reach its
   constituency.--NEHEMIAH BOYNTON.

    (1659)

   See SOLIDARITY; SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST.


   =Interest in Religious Education=--See ADAPTING THE BIBLE.


   =Interest, Intense=--See BOOK, INFLUENCE OF A.


                         INTEREST, SIGNIFICANT

   I have often been appealed to by friends, who said: “Can’t you
   take this young man and give him employment?” Then I will watch
   that young man for a month or so and see what it is that he
   takes up in the morning. If he takes up the newspaper and turns
   to the political part of the paper, and is interested in that,
   why that is a good symptom of his intellectual tendencies; but
   if, instead of that, he takes up a magazine and sits down to
   read a love story, why you can not make a newspaper man out of
   him.--CHARLES A. DANA.

    (1660)


   =Interests, The Functioning of=--See ATROPHY.


   =Internationalism=--See STATESMANSHIP.


   =Interpretation and Individuality=--See INDIVIDUALITY
      IN INTERPRETATION.


                     INTERPRETATION BY EXPERIENCE

   A little boy who was born blind had an operation performed which
   enabled him to see. His mother led him out into the fields, and
   uncovered his eyes for the first time, and let him look upon the
   sky and trees and grass and flowers. “Oh, mother!” he cried,
   “why didn’t you tell me it was so beautiful?” “I tried to tell
   you, dear,” was her answer, “but you could not understand me.”

So it is sometimes with great verses in the Bible. When we read them
first or commit them to memory, we do not understand, but after, when
they fit the heart life and our eyes are opened, we wonder at the
beauty of them.--PHEBE PALMER.

    (1661)


   =Interpretation by Love=--See LOVE, INTERPRETATION BY.


                             INTERRUPTION

It is to be feared that much of the force of God’s spirit is cut off
by the world’s atmosphere before it reaches a soul that is immersed in
worldliness:

   The greatest difficulty in arriving at a correct conception of
   the amount of heat received from the sun lies in the fact that
   all such measures must be made at the earth’s surface. Before
   reaching the apparatus the sun’s rays pass through many miles
   of atmosphere; the heat and light are absorbed and only a small
   portion of the original energy of the rays actually reaches
   the surface and becomes effective in heating the water of our
   apparatus.--CHARLES LANE POOR, “The Solar System.”

    (1662)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In “One Word More” Browning tells us that Dante “once prepared
   to paint an angel”; but “certain people of importance” broke in
   upon him, and so, much to the poet’s and the world’s regret, we
   can never see that angel he might have wrought.

   Perhaps the very serious power of interruptions, and what we may
   call their irreligiousness, has been too little appreciated.
   Florence Nightingale recognized the possible harm done to an
   invalid by making any abrupt change in his condition. “You may
   suffocate him by giving him his food suddenly; but, if you rub
   his lips gently with a spoon, and thus attract his attention,
   he will swallow the food with perfect safety. Thus it is with
   the brain.” Miss Nightingale adds acutely, “I have never
   known persons who exposed themselves for years to constant
   interruption who did not muddle away their intellects by it at
   last.”

    (1663)

   See HAPPINESS.


                         INTERVENTION, DIVINE

   A large number of Russian criminals were standing in the
   courtyard of their prison, chained together, and about starting
   for their long journey to Siberia. Among them was one Christian
   Stundist, sharing their banishment because he had spoken to his
   fellow workmen about the faith in Christ he profest. His fellow
   prisoners were jeering him about it, saying: “You are no better
   off than we. You are wearing the bracelets (handcuffs) as we
   do; if your God is of any use to you, why doesn’t he knock off
   your chains and set you free?” The man reverently replied, “If
   the Lord will He can set me free even now; and tho my hands are
   chained my heart is free.” At that moment his name was called;
   a paper had just been received granting him a full pardon. He
   was then told to stand aside; his chains were struck off. At
   the same time the prison gates were thrown open and all the
   rest of the convicts filed out, the Stundist remaining behind
   with permission to return to his family and friends. It is
   said the prisoners were perfectly awestricken with what they
   had witnessed. Unknown to the Stundist, a Christian lady had
   obtained his pardon, and God had ordered its arrival at the
   critical moment.

    (1664)

       *       *       *       *       *

   But for the divine vigilance, an unseen Helper, what youth
   but would go down! In every hour when Achilles is about to be
   overborne by the number and strength of his enemies, Homer
   makes some goddess appear to lift a shield above the hero for
   protection. Again and again Thetis stands between her son
   and the enemy. Of your youth, how true it is that God hath
   interfered in your behalf!--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1665)


                         INTIMACY WITH CHRIST

   When the great artist, Sir Alma-Tadema, was painting his
   “Heliogabalus,” which made a sensation during its exhibition at
   the British Royal Academy, and in which roses are a prominent
   feature, he was in the habit of receiving from Italy a fresh box
   of roses twice a week, so that he literally and actually had a
   new model for every individual blossom.

If the painter must live in close and delicate touch with nature,
much more must the messenger of Christ abide in direct communion with
the Savior if he would catch the virtue, the color and the aroma of
celestial things. (Text.)

    (1666)


                              INTOLERANCE

We should be thankful that such conditions as those described below no
longer exist:

   No religious meetings outside the ordinary services of the
   Church could be held without a license under the Toleration Act;
   and those taking part in such meetings, in order to secure the
   right to hold them, had to register themselves as Dissenters.
   This law extended to America, and so the first Methodist Church
   in the United States was adorned with that very unecclesiastical
   bit of architecture--a chimney. When a Methodist church was
   built it had to disguise itself as a house in order to secure
   the right to exist.--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His
   Century.”

    (1667)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In a dark wood where wild beasts lived there once lay a man’s
   boot. How it came there, I can not say, for no man had been
   there--at least the wild beasts had not seen one in all their
   lives. But there the boot was, and when the beasts saw it they
   all came round to find out what it was. Such a thing was quite
   new to them; but they were not much at a loss for all that.

   “Well, there is no doubt as to what it is, I say,” said the bear.

   “Oh, of course not,” said the wolf and the goat and all the
   beasts and birds in one breath.

   “Of course,” said the bear, “it is the rind of some kind of
   fruit off a tree--the fruit of the cork, I should say. This is
   cork, it is plain to see,” and he showed the sole of the boot.

   “Oh, just hear him! just hear him!” cried all the beasts and
   birds.

   “It is not that at all,” said the wolf, with a glance of scorn
   at the bear. “Of course it is some kind of nest. Look; here is
   the hole for the bird to go in at, and here is the deep part for
   the eggs and young ones to be safe. No doubt at all, of course
   not!”

   “Oh, oh!” cried the bear and the goat and all the birds and
   beasts, “just hear what he says! It is not that at all.”

   “I should think not,” said the goat. “It is quite a plain case.
   Look at this long root,” and he showed the string at the side of
   the boot. “It is the root of a plant, of course.”

   “Not a bit of it,” cried the wolf and the bear; “not a bit of
   it. A root? How can you say so? It is not that, we can all see.”

   “If I might speak,” said an old owl, who sat in a tree near, “I
   think I can tell you what it is. I have been in a land where
   there are more of such things than you could count. It is a
   man’s boot.”

   “A what?” cried all the beasts and birds. “What is a man? and
   what is a boot?”

   “A man,” said the owl, “is a thing with two legs that can walk
   and eat and talk, like us; but he can do much more than we can.”

   “Pooh, pooh!” cried they all.

   “That can’t be true,” said the beasts. “How can a thing with two
   legs do more than we can, who have four? It is false, of course.”

   “Of course it is if they have no wings,” said the birds.

   “Well,” went on the owl, “they have no wings, and yet it is
   true. And they can make things like this, and they call them
   boots and put them on their feet.”

   “Oh, oh!” cried all the beasts and birds at once. “How can you?
   For shame. Fie on you! That is not true, of course. It can not
   be.”

   “A likely story!” said the bear.

   “Can do more than we can?” said the wolf.

   “Wear things on their feet?” cried they all. “On the face of it
   your story is not true. We know that such things are not worn on
   the feet. How could they be?”

   “Of course they could not,” said the bear; “it is false.”

   “It must be false,” cried all the birds and beasts. “You must
   leave the wood,” they said to the owl. “What you say can not be
   true. You are not fit to live with us. You have said what you
   know is false. It must be, of course.”

   And they chased the poor old owl out of the wood, and would not
   let him come back.

   “It is true for all that,” said the owl.

   And so it was.--_The Nursery._

    (1668)


                             INTRODUCTIONS

Some introductions to sermons, speeches, articles, etc., would gain if
they were made as brief as the speech of this mayor:

   “Long introductions when a man has a speech to make are a
   bore,” said former Senator John C. Spooner, according to _The
   Saturday Evening Post_. “I have had all kinds, but the most
   satisfactory one in my career was that of a German mayor of a
   small town in my State, Wisconsin.

   “I was to make a political address, and the opera-house was
   crowded. When it came time to begin, the mayor got up.

   “‘Mine friends,’ he said, ‘I have been asked to introduce
   Senator Spooner, who is to make a speech, yes. Vell, I haf dit
   so, und he vill now do so.’”

    (1669)


   =Intruders=--See INGRATITUDE.


   =Intrusion=--See TRIVIAL CAUSES.


                               INTUITION

What is true in music, according to R. H. Haweis, is equally true of
all intuitive processes:

   To accompany well you must not only be a good musician, but you
   must be mesmeric, sympathetic, intuitive. You must know what I
   want before I tell you; you must feel which way my spirit sets,
   for the motions of the soul are swift as an angel’s flight. I
   can not pause in those quick and subtle transitions of emotion,
   fancy, passion, to tell you a secret; if it is not yours
   already, you are unworthy of it. Your finishing lessons in music
   can do nothing for you. Your case is hopeless. You have not
   enough music in you to know that you are a failure.

    (1670)


                          INTUITIVE JUDGMENT

   Mill cites the following case, which is worth noting as an
   instance of the extreme delicacy and accuracy to which may be
   developed this power of sizing up the significant factors of a
   situation. A Scotch manufacturer procured from England, at a
   high rate of wages, a working dyer famous for producing very
   fine colors, with the view of teaching to his other workmen the
   same skill. The workman came; but his method of proportioning
   the ingredients, in which lay the secret of the effects he
   produced, was by taking them up in handfuls, while the common
   method was to weigh them. The manufacturer sought to make him
   turn his handling system into an equivalent weighing system,
   that the general principles of his peculiar mode of proceeding
   might be ascertained. This, however, the man found himself
   quite unable to do, and could therefore impart his own skill to
   nobody. He had, from individual cases of his own experience,
   established a connection in his mind between fine effects of
   color and tactual perceptions in handling his dyeing materials;
   and from these perceptions he could, in any particular case,
   infer the means to be employed and the effects which would be
   produced.--JOHN DEWEY, “How We Think.”

    (1671)


   =Invention=--See AMBITION.


   =Invention and Employment=--See VALUE OF ONE MAN.


   =Inventions=--See LABOR-SAVING DEVICES.


   =Inventions, Worthless=--See DISAPPOINTMENT.


   =Inventive Possibilities=--See FUTURE POSSIBILITIES.


                           INVESTMENT RETURN

The Rev. John F. Goucher established many vernacular Christian schools
in the villages of India.

   An American traveler in northern India, strolling on the
   platform when the train had come to a standstill, saw a native
   who drew near, eyed him closely, then fell before him, clasped
   him about the ankles, and beating his feet with his head, cried,
   “I am your servant, and you are my savior!”

   The traveler bade the man get up and say what he had to say.
   The native at length exprest himself: “You are Dr. Goucher,
   of America, are you not? All that I am and have I owe to you.
   Hearing that you were traveling through on this train, I walked
   more than twenty miles just to see your train pass. Now God has
   let me look into your face.”

   Thousands of young Indians in the north-west provinces of
   India call themselves “Goucher Boys,” and look upon a man in
   distant America, whom they have never seen, as their friend and
   emancipator.--WILLIAM T. ELLIS, “Men and Missions.”

    (1672)


                           INVESTMENT, SAFE

   One of the Copes had but just written his check for $50 for some
   local charity, when a messenger announced the wreck of an East
   Indiaman belonging to the firm, and that the ship and cargo were
   a total loss. Another check for $500 was substituted at once,
   and given to the agent of the hospital with the remark: “What
   I have God gave me, and before it all goes, I had better put
   some of it where it can never be lost.” (Text.)--NOAH HUNT
   SCHENCK.

    (1673)


   =Invisible, Answers from the=--See UNSEEN, RESPONSE FROM THE.


                       INVISIBLE, POTENCY OF THE

   Material forces called battleships bulk larger, but the
   invisible spiritual forces go farther, last longer and make
   cannon seem contemptible and paltry. In cold countries men
   sometimes build palaces of ice for some public function. In the
   hour when beautiful women and brilliant military bands assemble
   for a winter festival, the water, manifest in blocks of ice,
   seems very imposing. But would you know the real power of water,
   wait until it becomes invisible. Then lift your eyes to the
   western sunset, where colors of gold and rose are revealed by
   this invisible vapor; watch the rain-drop redden in the purple
   flow of grape and the crimson drops of pomegranate, or see it
   tossed by a harvester in sheaves of grain. Then, in what water
   does through its invisible workings, do we know its place in
   nature and its contributions to man’s happiness. (Text.)--N.
   D. HILLIS.

    (1674)


                     INVISIBLE, THE, MADE VISIBLE

   On the brightest and sunniest day, millions of tons of black
   charcoal in an invisible condition are floating in the air.
   Millions of plants are at the same time restoring it to visible
   form by the chemical processes going on in the tiny laboratory
   of every leaf that expands in the sunshine. In the course of
   time the leaf or the wood it elaborates by its delicate alchemy,
   may be burned; and this cycle of change may go on indefinitely,
   the matter becoming visible and invisible again and again.
   (Text.)--_Popular Science News._

    (1675)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In chemical operations, whether natural or artificial, matter
   is often “lost to sight”; but the veriest tyro has learned, as
   one of the fundamental axioms of science, that it can never be
   actually lost or destroyed. In its manifold mutations it often
   disappears from our vision; but it reappears, or can be made to
   reappear, as palpable to our senses as before. If a piece of
   silver be put into nitric acid, a clear and colorless liquid,
   it is rapidly dissolved, and we “see it no more.” The solution
   may be mixed with water, and apparently no effect is produced.
   Thus, in a pail of water we may dissolve fifty dollars’ worth
   of silver, not a particle of which can be seen. Not even the
   chemist, unless he should apply certain tests to detect its
   presence, would, by merely looking at the liquid, guess what
   hidden wealth it contained. Other metals, as we know, can be
   treated in similar ways with the same result. When charcoal and
   many other substances are burned, they disappear as completely,
   no visible ashes even being left from the combustion. In fact,
   every material, which is visible can, by certain treatment, be
   rendered invisible. Matter which in one state or condition is
   perfectly opaque, and will not permit a ray of light to pass
   through it, will in another form become perfectly transparent.
   The cause of this wonderful change in matter is utterly
   inexplicable.--_Popular Science News._

    (1676)

       *       *       *       *       *

The progress of science is fast bringing the hitherto invisible
universe into man’s view.

   Unofficial announcement has been made at Boston that Prof.
   H. C. Ernst, of the Harvard medical school, has discovered a
   new method of photographing bacteria, which makes it possible
   to watch the life of disease germs, to watch the effect of
   medicine upon them and to see new facts as to the form which has
   heretofore been clouded in mystery. The Ernst method consists in
   the use of ultra-violet rays of the spectrum which are invisible
   to the eye. Under the present method no picture of germs is made
   until they are colored by chemicals.

    (1677)


   =Invitation=--See HELP FOR THE HELPLESS.


   =Inward Rectification=--See TRANSFORMATION BY RENEWING.


                       IRONY OFTEN MISUNDERSTOOD

   The fact is that the Carlyles habitually addrest one another
   with irony. It is no uncommon thing between intimates: it is
   rather a sign of the security of the affection which unites
   them. But if, by some unhappy accident, a third person who has
   no sense of humor hears this gay clash of keen words, and puts
   them down in dull print, and goes on to point out in his dull
   fashion that they do not sound affectionate, and are phrases
   by no means in common use among excellent married persons of
   average intellects, it is easy to see that the worst sort of
   mischief may readily be wrought.--W. J. DAWSON, “The
   Makers of English Prose.”

    (1678)


                            IRRATIONAL LAWS

   The law of imprisonment for debt, which existed so long in
   England, the land of freedom, whereby a creditor enforced
   payment of debt by imprisoning his debtor for unlimited
   periods, is perhaps the most irrational that ever existed. The
   purposeless cruelty of imprisonment for debt was demonstrated in
   1792, when a woman died in Devon jail, after forty-five years’
   imprisonment, for a debt of £19. And when the Thatched House
   Society set to work to ransom honest debtors by paying their
   debts, they, in twenty years, released 12,590 at a cost of 45
   shillings per head. (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities
   of Law and Lawyers.”

    (1679)


   =Irresolution=--See HUMAN NATURE, INSECURITY OF.


                           IRRESPONSIBILITY

   The spectacle of a $100,000,000 “trust” unable to get hay
   for its horses on credit was seen recently in Sault Ste.
   Marie, where the Consolidated Lake Superior Company went into
   liquidation. The liquidation resulted from the failure of the
   directors of this big concern to raise $5,000,000 to pay a loan
   from the Speyer syndicate.

   Here is a corporation which was paying seven per cent dividends,
   and which began two or three years ago with a capital of
   $102,000,000, so destitute of liquid assets or working capital
   that it can not pay a loan of $5,000,000, for which its very
   existence was pawned. Nothing appears to be left.

   Lake Superior Consolidated, like all the other trusts, was
   organized under the Connecticut corporation act, which, like
   that of West Virginia, New Jersey, Delaware, and other States,
   was expressly drawn to relieve all concerned of responsibility.
   No one was responsible for anything in the prospectus. No
   one could be held, in the promotion or direction, for any
   statements, promises, or representations. The sidewalk vender is
   more responsible for the razors and remedies that he sells in
   the flare of his gasoline lamp than the promoters or directors
   of an American trust to which millions of dollars flow.--New
   York _American_.

    (1680)


                          IRRETRIEVABLE, THE

   The people of Florence sent their great poet, Dante, into exile.
   He went into Ravenna, there died, and there was buried. After
   his death, Florence recognized how great this exiled son of hers
   had been, and begged his body from Ravenna, and could not get
   it. Ravenna would not part with it. Florence might have had it
   had she asked Dante to come back.

    (1681)


   =Irreverent Laughter=--See LAUGHTER, PERILS OF.


                              IRRIGATION

    Long have I waited their coming, the men of the far-lying mist-hills
      Gathered about their fires and under the kindly rains.
    Not to the blazing sweep of Thy desert, O Lord, have they turned them;
      Evermore back to the mist-hills, back to the rain-kissed plains.

    Long through the ages I waited the children of men, but they came not;
      Only God’s silent centuries holding their watch sublime.
    Gaunt and wrinkled and gray was the withering face of Thy desert:
      All in Thine own good time; O Lord, in Thine own good time.

    Lo! Thou hast spoken the word, and Thy children come bringing the
      waters
      Loosed from their mountain keep in the thrall of each sentinel hill.
    Lord, Thou hast made me young and fair at Thine own waters’ healing,
      Pleasing and fair to mankind in the flood of Thy bountiful will.

    Wherefore in joy now Thy children come, flying exultant and eager;
      Now is thine ancient earth remade by Thy powerful word.
    Lord, unto Thee be the glory! Thine is the bloom of the desert.
      Hasten, O men of the mist-hills! Welcome, ye sons of the Lord!
                                                               (Text.)

    --MCCREADY SYKES, _The Atlantic Monthly_.

    (1682)


   =Isolation, Fatal=--See RESOURCES, EXHAUSTED.


=Issue, A Consequential=--See CONSEQUENCES.




                                   J


                              JARS, DAILY

It is not often the great strokes of misfortune that break men down,
but the daily wear and tear of small troubles. An editor writes thus:

   A huge cart-wheel lies in the gutter near our office. The cart
   itself has been pulled with difficulty out of the way of the
   trolley cars. An axle has broken. And that axle! It is fully
   four inches in diameter and was originally forged of soundest
   steel. But as you look at the fragments of it wedged in the
   overturned hub you discover a peculiar condition. “The steel
   has been crystallized,” the mechanic would explain. No sudden
   strain broke it, no tremendous wrench twisted the spindle from
   the beam. The ruin was wrought by the constant small jars of
   daily traffic. Rumbling over stones, bumping over crossings,
   scraping against curbs threw the atoms of steel in the axle out
   of cohesive harmony. Then came the one jar, no heavier than the
   others, that sent the load of coal into the street.

    (1683)


   =Jester, The=--See HUMOR OVERDONE.


                           JESTING COMMENDED

   It is wise to laugh, and Joe Miller is right when he says
   that the gravest beast is an ass, and the gravest man is a
   fool. This opinion of the famous jester is in accord with
   Plato, who is reported to have remarked to his friends, when
   their social enjoyment was occasionally intruded upon by the
   approach of some sedate wiseacre, “Silence, my friends, let us
   be wise now, for a fool is coming.” Other notable characters,
   if not themselves witty, have sought relief from the strain of
   serious employment by a laugh and innocent merriment. Philip
   of Macedon, Sylla, the Roman dictator, Queen Elizabeth, and
   our own Abraham Lincoln, keenly enjoyed a good joke, while
   Julius Cæsar, Tacitus, Erasmus, and Lord Bacon compiled
   jest-books. So there is high authority for jesting, and a jest
   is merely petrified laughter--a laugh congealed into words,
   so as to be passed from mouth to mouth and handed down to
   further generations.--EDMUND KIRKE, _North American
   Review_.

    (1684)


                              JESTS, OLD

   To Hierocles, who lived in the sixth century, is attributed a
   book called “Asteia,” which contains twenty-one jests, the most
   of which are now alive, and passing themselves off as “real,
   original Jacobs.” Among them is the man who would not venture
   into the water until he had learned to swim; the man whose horse
   died just as he had taught it to live without eating; the other
   who stood before the mirror with his eyes shut, to see how he
   looked when asleep; the other who apologized for a negligence by
   saying, “I never received the letter you wrote me”; the other
   who kept a crow expressly to satisfy himself if the creature did
   live to the age of two hundred years; and the old philosopher
   who carried a brick about as a specimen of the house he desired
   to sell. But, older than Hierocles--old as Horace--is the stupid
   fellow who, wanting to cross a stream, sat down upon the bank
   to wait for all the water to run by. The French king who said,
   “After me, the deluge,” was thought to be original, but the
   phrase is found in the Greek of two thousand years ago; as is
   also the proverb, “There is many a slip between the cup and the
   lip,” which was the appropriate inscription upon the drinking
   cup of a rich Greek. Every one knows the lady who insists that
   her age is but thirty, and whose friend asserts that he believes
   her, because he has heard her say so “any time these ten years.”
   Bacon, in his “Apothegms,” asserts that the same anecdote is
   told of Cicero.--EDMUND KIRKE, _North American
   Review_.

    (1685)


   =Jesus All Right=--See CHRIST APPROVED.


   =Jesus as a Character-builder=--See CHARACTER-BUILDING.


                          JESUS AS COMPANION

   A missionary riding on horseback through one of the cotton
   States of the South came upon an old tumble-down cabin in
   the doorway of which stood a poor crippled negress. Her back
   was bent nearly double with years of hard work and her face
   was deeply wrinkled and her hair was white, but her two eyes
   were as bright as two stars. The man called out cheerily,
   “Good-morning, Auntie--living here all alone?” “Jes me n’
   Jesus, Massa,” she replied with a bright smile. The missionary
   dismounted and went in for a little visit with her--and he said
   as he was riding away, and looked back for a last glimpse of the
   happy old saint, “It seemed as if he could see the form of one
   like unto the Son of God” standing by her side in the doorway of
   the poor little cabin.

    (1686)


   =Jesus as Guide=--See GUIDE, THE PERFECT.


   =Jesus, Canceler of Sin=--See CHRIST DESTROYER OF SIN.


   =Jesus Crowned with Thorns=--See CHRIST’S FACE.


                          JESUS, GREATNESS OF

Recently a flower was exhibited that was grown in a cellar by acetylene
gas. But let no man be anxious. The summer’s sun is not seriously
threatened by acetylene! The scientist knows that there is a large
amount of condensed sunshine stored away in the acetylene that was
released. There are a few soldiers of supreme genius that divide
honors. There are a few poets of the first order of greatness. There
are a few statesmen of equal rank. But Jesus is alone, one star,
shining down upon the little hills.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1687)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Dinocrates, a Macedonian architect, once proposed to carve
   Mount Athos into a statue of Alexander--the left hand to hold a
   city of 10,000 population, and the right hand to be a basin to
   receive the perpetual flow of the mountain and give it to the
   sea below. Jesus, a mightier architect, is carving all humanity
   into a kingdom that, like a stone cut out of the mountain
   without hands, shall fill the whole earth.

    (1688)


                        JESUS, SECOND COMING OF

   In Venice stands a very beautiful monument, a pyramid of marble,
   in which lie the mortal remains of a little child. By the door
   stands a sculptured angel resting one hand on the door-latch,
   and holding in the other hand a trumpet, and himself peering
   intently into the distant heaven; while carved upon the door is
   the inscription: “Till He Comes.”

Such a monument is the institution of the Lord’s Supper. Such an
expectancy is appropriate to the soul. Such a lesson of patient waiting
is not amiss. Such a readiness to respond to the last call were
becoming even to the busy. (Text.)

    (1689)


                          JESUS, SUPREMACY OF

   On Chinese Gordon’s monument in St. Paul’s Cathedral, proud
   England has inscribed this epitaph, “Who at all times and
   everywhere gave his strength to the weak, his substance to the
   poor, his sympathy to the suffering, and his heart to God.”
   Well may old England gather young England about the monument
   of her dead hero who gave Jesus Christ supremacy over both
   life and relations. Henry George and Cardinal Manning were
   talking together. “I love men because Jesus loved them,” said
   the Cardinal. “And I love Jesus because he loved men,” was Mr.
   George’s quick reply. It does not matter which way you go to
   it, only that you do actually go to the real love of men. This
   kind of Christianity is not outgrown; this kind has not yet been
   tried.--WM. F. MCDOWELL, “Student Volunteer Movement,”
   1906.

    (1690)


   “=Jesus, Thy Blood and Righteousness=”--See CHRIST’S FACE.


   =Jesus Would Have Done, Just as=--See GENEROSITY, CHRISTIAN.


   =Jewel, The Sympathetic=--See SYMPATHY.


   =Journalism=--See CLASSICS, STUDY OF.


   =Journey of Life=--See SOUL QUERIES.


                           JOURNEY TO HEAVEN

   Our highest aspiration must wait. We are here to get through the
   world. Life is a road where we camp for a night on a journey
   to the golden gate and the setting sun; a traveler who sets up
   his tent at dark does not plant corn or put out a grapevine,
   if when the morning comes he expects to pull his tent down and
   march on. Men are born upon the shore of one ocean; by traveling
   lightly and never losing a moment, and marching bravely on,
   through forest, over desert, mountain and river, the traveler
   can reach the other ocean in time to catch the little boat that
   slips out into the dark, and sails out of sight with God alone.
   But the traveler must not expect to plant harvests and grow
   vineyards while out upon his march. Yonder lie the happy hills
   of God. There no winter falls, there the summer sheds its warmth
   always upon the violet beds. There youth is perfect and beauty
   is eternal. There every ambition will be perfected, every dream
   realized; every hope turned to fruition, and the soul is a tree
   waving its fruit and casting down its purple vintage at the feet
   of the God of the summer. (Text.)--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1691)


                                  JOY

John Kendrick Bangs, in the _Atlantic Monthly_, writes an ideal
note:

    To-day, whatever may annoy
    The word for me is joy, just simple joy;
    The joy of life;
    The joy of children and of wife;
    The joy of bright blue skies;
    The joy of rain; the glad surprize
    Of twinkling stars that shine at night;
    The joy of wingéd things upon their flight;
    The joy of noon-day, and the tried
    True joyousness of eventide;
    The joy of labor, and of mirth;
    The joy of air, and sea, and earth--
    The countless joys that ever flow from Him
    Whose vast beneficence doth dim
    The lustrous light of day,
    And lavish gifts divine upon our way.
    Whate’er there be of sorrow
    I’ll put off till to-morrow,
    And when to-morrow comes, why then
    ’Twill be to-day and joy again! (Text.)

    (1692)

       *       *       *       *       *

            So take joy home,
    And make a place in thy great heart for her,
    And give her time to grow, and cherish her;
    Then will she come, and oft will sing to thee,
    When thou art working in the furrows; aye,
    Or weeding in the sacred hours of dawn.
    It is a comely fashion to be glad--
    Joy is the grace we say to God. (Text.)

    --JEAN INGELOW.

    (1693)


                            JOY AFTER GRIEF

    I had a sorrow, and I wept salt tears
      One winter night, and heavy beat the rain;
      At dawn came frost, and on my window-pane
    Each drop like fairy lacework now appears.

    So shall my grief perchance become a pleasure;
      Yes, tears maybe are jewels hearts would keep,
      For in another life we’ll wake from sleep,
    And light shall sparkle from our new-found treasure.

    --BEATRIX L. TOLLEMACHE.

    (1694)


                            JOY AND SORROW

“Joy and sorrow are contemporaneous experiences in the same Christian
consciousness,” says Dr. Cruddylan Jones. In the Straits of Gibraltar
is a double current, the stream flowing back again from the
Mediterranean to the Atlantic. This phenomenon is analogous to the
double current in the life of every believer. (Text.)

    (1695)


   =Judge, a Considerate=--See PROBATION.


   =Judged by the Sun=--See TESTS.


   =Judging=--See CYNIC REBUKED.


                           JUDGING, CARE IN

   A traveler in North Carolina saw an old colored man sitting in a
   chair in his garden, hoeing. The traveler laughed. He thought it
   was a case of monumental laziness. But he happened to look back
   as he laughed, and he saw a pair of crutches lying on the ground
   by the old man’s chair. At once what made him seem ridiculous
   before made him seem heroic now.

When disposed to criticize, remember human infirmities. (Text.)

    (1696)


                          JUDGING FROM FACTS

   We must not judge any act without knowing the facts of the
   case. “See that man! He has sat on the bank all the morning
   throwing pebble after pebble into the water. How lazy he must
   be!” “Is this a fair judgment?” I inquire. And at the end of a
   warm discussion, I tell my pupils how Turner, the artist, did
   that to watch the surface of the water in motion and learn how
   to paint its sheen and color. “A child is walking quietly along
   the sidewalk. Suddenly a rough looking man seizes her and pushes
   her into the gutter. Is he cruel?” Of course every one answers
   yes, at first. But no--a mass of ice is about to fall from the
   roof above the child’s head. Her assaulter turns out to be her
   protector.

   In teaching, of course, every good teacher passes from examples
   to principles. Through such examples as these we elicit the fact
   that we can judge no act on sight, for every act is open to a
   good or a bad interpretation. The eager energy members of my
   class show in pointing out possible good motives for acts that
   at first sight look selfish makes me feel sure that they will
   not in later life condemn unheard. “The special part of this
   ethics course which stands out in my mind as important,” writes
   one of my pupils, “is that on right and wrong judgments. It
   makes me realize how little right we have to judge people from
   appearances. There are so many sides of people’s characters
   that we don’t half consider or appreciate.”--ELLA LYMAN
   CABOT, “Proceedings of the National Education Association,”
   1909.

    (1697)


                             JUDGMENT DAY

   A traveler in Tennessee came across an aged negro seated in
   front of his cabin door basking in the sunshine.

   “He could have walked right on the stage for an Uncle Tom part
   without a line of make-up” says the traveler. “He must have been
   eighty years of age.”

   “Good-morning, uncle,” said the traveler.

   “Mornin’, sah! Mornin’,” said the aged one. Then he added, “Be
   you the gentleman over yonder from New York?”

   Being told that such was the case, the old darky said, “Do you
   mind telling me something that has been botherin’ my old haid? I
   have got a grandson--he runs on the Pullman cyars--and he done
   tells me that up thar in New York you-all burn up youah folks
   when they die. He is a powerful liar, and I don’t believe him.”

   “Yes,” replied the other, “that is the truth in some cases. We
   call it cremation.”

   “Well, you suttenly surprize me,” said the negro, and then he
   paused as if in deep reflection. Finally he said, “You-all know
   I am a Baptist. I believe in the resurrection and the life
   everlastin’ and the comin’ of the Angel Gabriel and the blowin’
   of that great horn, and Lawdy me, how am they evah goin’ to find
   them folks on that great mawnin’?”

   It was too great a task for an off-hand answer, and the
   suggestion was made that the aged one consult his minister.
   Again the negro fell into a brown study, and then he raised his
   head and his eyes twinkled merrily, and he said in a soft voice:

   “Meanin’ no offense, sah, but from what Ah have heard
   about New York, I kinder calculate they is a lot of
   them New York people that doan’ wanter be found on that
   mornin’.”--_Cosmopolitan._

    (1698)


                           JUDGMENT DELAYED

   A certain farmer, who was an infidel, sent to the editor of a
   weekly newspaper the following letter:

   “Sir--I have been trying an experiment. I have a field of Indian
   corn, which I plowed on Sunday. I planted it on Sunday. I did
   all the cultivating which it received on Sunday. I gathered the
   crop on Sunday, and on Sunday hauled it to my barn; and I find
   that I have more corn per acre than has been gathered by any of
   my neighbors during this October.”

   What a triumphant sneer lay behind these words of the skeptic!
   But one thinks the light faded from his eyes as he read the
   sentence which the editor appended to his letter: “N. B.--God
   does not always settle His accounts in October!”

    (1699)


   =Judgment Dependent on Position=--See _Point of View_.


                           JUDGMENT, FAULTY

   When President Roosevelt was in Idaho, shortly after the
   publication of his book, “The Winning of the West,” he entered
   a book-store one day and saw a copy of his book lying on
   the counter. “Who is this author, Roosevelt?” he asked the
   proprietor. “Oh, he is a ranch-driver up in the cattle country,”
   was the answer. “Indeed,” said Mr. Roosevelt, “and what do you
   think of his book?” “Waal,” said the dealer, thoughtfully, “I’ve
   always had the idea that I’d like to meet that author and tell
   him that if he’d stuck to running ranches, and not tried to
   write books, he’d cut a heap bigger figure at his trade, and
   been a bigger man.”

The ranchman’s judgment was doubtless defective, but it is often well
to see ourselves as others see us.

    (1700)


                           JUDGMENT, GRADUAL

Gibbon wrote and we speak of the “Decline and Fall of the Roman
Empire,” and Maspero has written a magnificent volume on “The Passing
of the Ancient Empires.” Gradual degeneracy is the cause and precursor
of final collapse.

   After a violent gale one night a great tree was found lying
   across the pathway in the park where through long years it
   had been developing a noble growth. Nothing but a splintered
   stump remained standing. Examination showed there had been
   another development besides that of its stately beauty. For it
   was rotten to the core, because of the secret workings of a
   multitude of little insects which for generations had lived and
   multiplied. Judgment was not passed on that tree by the sudden
   gale, but went forth from the very moment that the first insect
   nested within its bark.

    (1701)


                           JUDGMENT, LACK OF

   “I will never forget my first experience in the hospital work,”
   said Chief Surgeon Millar, of the Central Emergency Hospital,
   San Francisco. “There was a green nurse in the detention ward
   and we had a very violent case in there--a man in the worst
   stage of delirium tremens. I was awakened in the middle of the
   night by the head nurse, who requested me to come at once to the
   patient. When I got there I found him raving and very violent,
   with the new nurse scared out of her wits. I said:

   “‘Why did you let him go so far? I left you some medicine to
   give him as soon as he got delirious.’

   “‘Yes, doctor,’ she replied; ‘but you told me to give that to
   him if he saw any more snakes, and this time he was seeing blue
   dogs with pink tails.’”--San Francisco _Call_.

    (1702)


                       JUDGMENTS, INDISCRIMINATE

It is to be feared that many verdicts against our fellow men are as
indiscriminate as that of the juryman in the following extract:

   A lawyer once asked a man who had at various times sat on
   several juries, “Who influenced you most--the lawyers, the
   witnesses, or the judge?” He expected to get some useful and
   interesting information from so experienced a juryman.

   This was the man’s reply: “I tell yer, sir, ’ow I makes up
   my mind. I’m a plain man, and a reasonin’ man, and I ain’t
   influenced by anything the lawyers say, nor by what the
   witnesses say--no, nor by what the judge says. I just looks at
   the man in the dock, and I says, ‘If he ain’t done nothing,
   why’s he there?’ And I brings ’em all in guilty.”

    (1703)


                                 JUNK

The Rev. William Barnes Lower writes this telling illustration:

   The dredging-machines at work deepening the channel of the
   Delaware River are bringing to the surface all kinds of junk and
   implements lost or thrown overboard from ships. All kinds of
   tools, brass and copper are being found and sold as junk.

   Every life carries with it, some more, some less, a lot of
   worthless junk--old superstitions from which it is hard to
   break away, old prejudices that have hindered the progress
   of the soul and should have been thrown overboard long ago.
   Superstition is the greatest burden in the world. The imaginary,
   scarecrow superstitions of many homes is the worthless junk,
   that is a dead weight to its spiritual and intellectual
   progress. Superstition is the disturber of many homes. Very
   often superstition parades itself under the guise of religion.
   Superstition is the one swing of the pendulum, skepticism
   believes nothing. Prejudice always arises through inexperience
   of the world and ignorance of mankind. In any life it is as
   worthless as old junk.

    (1704)


   =Just Punishment=--See _Boys Adjusting Their Troubles_.


                                JUSTICE

   Over on the further side, in the shallow eddy, the pool was
   troubled a second, then there rose from it a wee sunfish, not
   more than three inches long, rose from it tail first and began
   balancing across the pool surface toward me, on his head. His
   tail quivered in the air, and I could see his freckles growing
   in the yellow transparency of his skin; yet, tho I watched
   with wide eyes, he was two-thirds the way across the pool
   toward me before I noticed beneath him the tip of the nose
   and the wicked little dark eye of a water-snake. At sight of
   him the demoiselles should have shrieked and flown away, but
   they made no move. I, however, indignant, arose, and seizing
   broken fragments of rock was about to lacerate him, and lose
   his prey, when I quite suddenly thought better of it. Had not I
   a few days before come down stream to the deep pool above and
   carried off a string of perch, sunfish, pouts, and an eel? Had
   not the water-snake also a right to his dinner?--WINTHROP
   PACKARD, “Wild Pastures.”

    (1705)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Some of the early settlers of this country bargained with the
   Indians that for each fish-hook given, they were to give as much
   land as a bullock’s hide would cover. But the settlers cut the
   hide into thin strips, and made it cover a large area. William
   Penn, when he first came to Pennsylvania, bargained with the
   Indians that he would give a certain number of articles for as
   much land as a man could walk around in a certain time. The man
   covered so much more ground than the Indians believed he would,
   that they became dissatisfied and threatening. But Penn said
   to them, “You agreed to this way of measuring.” His companions
   wished to force the carrying out of this agreement, but Penn
   replied that that would be wrong toward these simple children of
   the prairie; he asked them what they thought would be right, and
   they simply demanded a few more rolls of cloth, to which Penn
   agreed. Not only was war averted, but the Indians were pleased
   with the fair and just spirit shown by the strangers, and became
   their friends.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (1706)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The story is told of a boy whose mother gave him some food
   to feed the chickens and little ducks. While feeding them he
   noticed that the ducks were scooping in nearly all the food. He
   saw that their large bills gave them a decided advantage and
   this he did not like. It did not exactly square with his notion
   of justice, so he got hold of a knife with a good edge to it,
   and just as fast as he could catch the ducklings he cut down
   their bills to match the size of that of the chicks.

    (1707)


                          JUSTICE BY MAJORITY

   Mr. Justice Perrot was a servile political judge, whose power
   of discrimination was well measured by the celebrated way
   in which he summed up to the jury in a case of a disputed
   watercourse, at Exeter Assizes. He concluded thus: “Gentlemen,
   there are fifteen witnesses who swear that the watercourse used
   to flow in a ditch on the north side of the hedge. On the other
   hand, gentlemen, there are nine witnesses who swear that the
   watercourse used to flow on the south side of the hedge. Now,
   gentlemen, if you subtract nine from fifteen, there remain six
   witnesses wholly uncontradicted, and I recommend you to give
   your verdict accordingly, for the party who called those six
   witnesses.”--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and
   Lawyers.”

    (1708)


                            JUSTICE DELAYED

   A case that has been on Chicago court dockets for almost twenty
   years was brought to light, and an effort made to hasten the
   progress of the wheels of justice in its disposal. The case is
   a damage suit of the survivors of victims of the _Tioga_
   steamer explosion July 11, 1890. Since it was started the
   original lawyers on both sides have died. The _Tioga_ was
   moored in the Chicago River, between Washington and Randolph
   streets, when the explosion occurred, resulting in an estimate
   of thirty deaths.

   The suit was filed in the Circuit Court, but was transferred to
   the United States District Court. Technical pleas and hearing of
   evidence before a master in chancery have consumed the years of
   litigation.

    (1709)

       *       *       *       *       *

   As I passed down through India I saw two little rice-fields side
   by side. One was green and growing; the other was dead and dry.
   I looked for the cause. The great lake was full of water. There
   was no lack there. Into the one the living water was flowing,
   for the channel was open. The other was choked. Brother, is your
   life green and growing, fruitful and joyful, or barren and dry
   because the channel is choked?--G. S. EDDY, “Student
   Volunteer Movement for Foreign Missions,” 1910.

    (1710)


                           JUSTICE, ETERNAL

   Nations change their names, their boundaries, their creeds and
   their languages. The altars of yesterday are but the curios of
   to-day. The temples that have been raised to the worships that
   have now disappeared from the face of the earth but move our
   wonder that beliefs so simple and so transparent should have
   nerved the minds of men to raise such marvels of architecture.
   But tho creeds and dynasties and languages are ephemeral, the
   principles of justice are eternal; and this Government, founded
   and built upon them, will, I believe, last to the end of
   time.--WILLIAM BOURKE COCKRAN.

    (1711)


                       JUVENILE COURT EXPERIENCE

Judge Ben Lindsey, who has been made famous by his remarkable work in
the Juvenile Court of Denver, tells the following in _The Survey_:

   A heart-broken mother whose child was becoming dependent can
   tell her own story: “My husband, judge, is a good man; he
   was steady at his employment as structural ironworker until
   recently. Now he is neglecting his home and his work. As soon
   as he quits work he goes down to the gambling-house and there
   he is being ruined. He used to go to mass with me on Sunday,
   and he was so good and loving to us all. Now he is indifferent,
   gloomy and melancholy. I am without clothes and the children
   have no shoes. He has gambled away two hundred dollars of the
   money that belongs to his union, for he was highly respected
   and elected its treasurer. I gave him fifty dollars to pay the
   chattel mortgage on our furniture, and I did not know that he
   had gambled it away until the chattel-mortgage man came and
   threatened to take the stove and furniture out of the house. I
   went to police headquarters and they were rude and insulting
   to me. But one of the officers came up to me and whispered
   confidentially to me that if I would go to the Juvenile Court
   they might help me out of my troubles.”

   Of course the “big business” men who commercialize political
   parties had little concern about their part in the ruin of that
   home and in the dependency and delinquency of that child. I sent
   for their political partner, the gambler who conducted the hell
   that was burning up that home. He admitted it all. I told him
   I would make a noise if he did not pay back that money to the
   poor mother. He paid it back. It would have been useless to talk
   about arrest and prosecution, for the public officials of that
   period would do neither.

    (1712)




                                   K


                               KEENNESS

   The poets have celebrated the perfection of the Oriental steel;
   and it is recognized as the finest by Moore, Byron, Scott,
   Southey and many others. I have even heard a young advocate of
   the lost arts find an argument in Byron’s “Sennacherib,” from
   the fact that the mail of the warriors in that one short night
   had rusted before the trembling Jews stole out in the morning
   to behold the terrible work of the Lord. Scott, in his “Tales
   of the Crusaders,”--for Sir Walter was curious in his love of
   the lost arts--describes a meeting between Richard Coeur de Lion
   and Saladin. Saladin asks Richard to show him the wonderful
   strength for which he is famous, and the Norman monarch responds
   by severing a bar of iron which lies on the floor of his tent.
   Saladin says, “I can not do that”; but he takes an eider-down
   pillow from the sofa, and, drawing his keen blade across it, it
   falls in two pieces. Richard says, “This is the black art; it
   is magic; it is the devil; you can not cut that which has no
   resistance”; and Saladin, to show him that such is not the case,
   takes a scarf from his shoulders, which is so light that it
   almost floats in the air, and, tossing it up, severs it before
   it can descend. George Thompson told me he saw a man in Calcutta
   throw a handful of floss-silk into the air, and a Hindu sever it
   into pieces with his saber.--WENDELL PHILLIPS.

    (1713)


   =Keenness from Use=--See PRACTISE.


                           KEY-NOTE OF LIFE

   In tuning a piano the artist strikes his tuning-fork on a hard
   surface and holds it to his ear while at the same time he
   strikes the A key on the keyboard. Then he tightens or loosens
   the string until the key and the fork correspond. From this he
   proceeds to harmonize all the other keys.

For the harmony of human life we have One who furnishes the keynote.
When we tune our life up to His all its chords become consonant.

    (1714)


                              KEYS, FALSE

   The notion that alcohol may do good because, for a moment, it
   seems to do good, was well answered by a physician’s response to
   a man who was somewhat too much given to the pleasures of the
   table. This man had said to the doctor:

   “What do you think of the influence of alcohol on the digestion,
   doctor?”

   “I think that its influence is bad,” said the physician.

   “But a little whisky taken just before a meal is the only key
   that will open my appetite, doctor.”

   “I don’t believe in opening things with false keys, sir!”
   answered the other.

Nor is alcohol the only false key in common use. Pretension,
misrepresentation, any means not adapted to the desired end--all are
false keys and must fail.

    (1715)


   =Kind Looks=--See _Face, An Inviting_.


                         KIND WORDS, VALUE OF

   The influence exercised by kind words from certain people
   can not be measured. I have in mind a retiring, modest man,
   singular in aspect and manner, who every Sunday visited the
   house of a friend where the head of the family, a superior man
   of great position, always bade him “Good-evening,” and kindly
   asked after his health. His simple words were so valued by this
   lonely man that when his friend died and he could no longer
   receive his kindly greeting, he left his employment and the
   city, dying in his turn of sorrow, in some obscure and unknown
   place where he had sought refuge.--DORA MELEGARI,
   “Makers of Sorrow and Makers of Joy.”

    (1716)


                         KINDLINESS, SENSE OF

   Few people possess the kindly sense of the French abbe mentioned
   in the memoirs of Madame Vig’ee de Brun, the celebrated
   portrait-painter of the last century. This gentleman was,
   unfortunately, extremely deformed, and, playing at cards with
   him, Madame de Brun was so struck by his strange figure that
   she inadvertently hummed a few bars of a tune called “The
   Hunchback.” Immediately recollecting herself, she stopt in
   confusion, whereupon the abbe turned to her with a kindly
   smile, “My dear madame, continue your tune. I assure you it
   does not offend me in the least; the association is so natural
   a one, that I believe it would have occurred to me in your
   place.”--London _Evening Standard_.

    (1717)


                               KINDNESS

   Several passengers on a hot day in June entered the train on
   the Columbia and Augusta Railroad. Among them were several
   young college boys who were on the way home from their summer
   vacation. They were stylish, well-drest lads, and were gay and
   happy, as boys usually are who have put books aside.

   A party of merry girls already occupied the car, and in a little
   time the train seemed flooded with youth and sunshine. A very
   lean woman, with an ample lunch-basket, divided her time between
   eating chicken and boiled eggs and fanning vigorously with a
   turkey-tail fan, while a stout man in the corner mopped his face
   with a red bandanna, and remarked, by way of emphasis, “Hot,
   very hot!”

   The girls and boys took in every incident, laughing and
   tittering all the while. Just across the aisle, opposite the
   boy, sat a woman holding a baby. A pale, tired, despairing look
   was on her face, and her eyes were full of suffering. The little
   one was fretful and cried piteously, but the young mother was
   too exhausted to try to quiet the baby.

   “Oh, just listen to that young one. I think crying babies ought
   to be put out of the cars,” one of the girls said pertly.

   “Yes, my head begins to ache,” said another, while the boys
   laughed; and the louder the child cried, the more merriment it
   caused among the young people; while the lean woman and the fat
   man scowled and complained.

   “I do not see any cause for ridicule,” said Fred Weston, as he
   arose; and to the amazement of all the passengers, he crossed
   to where the woman sat, and with a courteous bow, extended his
   arms. “Please let me hold your baby a while,” he said; “I have a
   little sister just her age and she loves me dearly. You look so
   tired, ma’am.”

   The child opened wide her big brown eyes and gazed into the
   handsome, bright face of the boy, as without hesitation she
   sprang forward into the outstretched arms. She ceased crying,
   and her lips puckered into a plaintive sob.

    (1718)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A poor boy was taken from the poorhouse into the home of a
   farmer, a just man, who dealt justly by the boy; but, somehow,
   he never gave him any help, and the boy moped along hopelessly.
   One day a visitor came to that farmer, and as the orphan boy
   brought around his horse the visitor said a kind word that made
   the boy open his heart a little. “I see,” said the stranger, as
   he was mounting to go, “you have a pretty hard time; but keep
   a good heart and you will come out all right. I have noticed
   that a boy that has a great shock of red hair and a large nose
   and a freckled face, if he keeps a good heart, always comes
   out right.” It was the first kind word, but it made the boy
   and the man he grew to be, who told the story. The law can not
   put a man in the right way when he finds himself wrong, but
   sometimes a kind word can.--FRANKLIN NOBLE, “Sermons in
   Illustration.”

    (1719)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Henry Clay was at one time considerably distrest by a large debt
   due to the bank. Some of his friends heard of it, and quietly
   raised the money and paid off the entire indebtedness, without
   notifying Mr. Clay. In utter ignorance of what had been going
   on, he went to the bank one day, and addressing the cashier,
   said, “I have called to see you in reference to that debt of
   mine to the bank.”

   “You don’t owe us anything,” was the reply.

   Mr. Clay looked inquiringly, and said: “You don’t understand me.
   I came to see you about that debt which I am owing the bank.”

   “You don’t owe us anything.”

   “Why! how am I to understand you?”

   “A number of your friends have contributed and paid off that
   debt, and you do not owe this bank one dollar.”

   Tears rushed to Mr. Clay’s eyes, and, unable to speak, he turned
   and walked out of the bank.

    (1720)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In my journal of Friday evening, July 3, 1863, I made the
   following note, “At eight o’clock this morning hundreds of
   rebels were seen standing on their fortifications. Both armies
   laid down their arms. About noon I went with part of my company
   (H. 33d Wis.) near the enemy’s fort, which was hardly more than
   200 yards from our line, and there the blue and the gray chatted
   pleasantly for a full hour. The meeting was so unrestrained
   and amicable as to make the scene exceedingly interesting and
   touching as well. My boys gave the contents of their haversacks
   to the rebels whom they had been fighting for nearly forty days
   and nights, and the defenders of the city deeply appreciated the
   kindness.”--NICHOLAS SMITH, “Grant, the Man of Mystery.”

    (1721)

   See FRIEND, A TRUE; PRESERVATION; TRAINING CHILDREN.


                         KINDNESS OF THE POOR

   A touching story of how the poor help one another comes from one
   of the Claremont Crusaders. A man, destitute and homeless, had
   been found by him shivering on the Thames embankment. He gave
   him a ticket which would provide a night’s shelter at Medland
   Hall. An hour or two later the man ran up to the Crusader. “I
   have just done a job,” he said, “for which I earned sixpence.
   Take this ticket back. It will help some other chap.”

    (1722)


   =Kindness, Oil of=--See LUBRICATION, EFFECTIVE; SUNSHINE.


   =Kindness Rewarded=--See RECOMPENSE FOR KINDNESS.


                     KINDNESS STIMULATING DEVOTION

In Mrs. Pickett’s memoirs of her husband, General George E. Pickett, of
the Confederate Army, she relates this incident:

   As my Soldier was riding toward Sailor’s Creek, a woman ran out
   of a house and handed him something to eat. He carried it in
   his hand as he rode on. Presently he came upon a soldier lying
   behind a log, and spoke to him. The man looked up, revealing a
   boyish face, scarcely more than a child’s--thin and pale.

   “What’s the matter?” asked my Soldier.

   “I’m starving, General,” the boy replied. “I couldn’t help it. I
   couldn’t keep up, so I just lay down here to die.”

   “Take this,” handing the boy his luncheon; “and when you have
   eaten it and rested, go on back home. It would only waste
   another life for you to go on.”

   The boy took the food eagerly, but replied: “No, Marse George.
   If I get strength enough to go at all, I’ll follow you to the
   last.”

   He did, for he was killed a few days later at Sailor’s Creek.

    (1723)


                        KINDNESS, THE POWER OF

   “Provo Canyon” is one of those grandly picturesque mountain
   ravines which abound in Utah. In the solitude and sublimity of
   this cañon a mountaineer named W. W. Ferguson lived a hermit’s
   life. In the winter months his log-cabin was, in consequence of
   the deep snow, shut entirely out from intercourse with human
   beings. But he was not companionless, this mountain man--for
   he made friends with the wild animals and birds. He was their
   friend and they grew fond of him. They learned to recognize his
   voice, and not to be afraid at his approach. They would eat food
   from his hands, the pigeons and magpies flying from afar when he
   called them--the little squirrels playing about him like tame
   kittens.

   A year ago a New York gentleman, on a pleasure trip, called at
   Mr. Ferguson’s cabin, and seeing the mountaineer with his bird
   and animal friends on such good terms, said:

   “My friend, you have some power--some charm which these
   creatures obey. If you will tell me the secret I will give you a
   hundred dollars.”

   The hermit, smiling, assured the traveler that the only secret
   was the kindness with which he always treated them. “They have
   learned,” he said, “that I am their friend, and I have never
   betrayed their friendship.”

    (1724)


                          KINDNESS TO ANIMALS

   In the woods near Walden Pond, Henry D. Thoreau built a house.
   It was a surprize to the raccoons and squirrels in the woods,
   But after a while the news went round that there was among
   them a man who would not do them any harm, and gradually they
   came closer and closer, and there grew to be a beautiful
   sympathy between him and the birds and animals. They would
   come at his call. On taking a squirrel from the tree, the
   little creature would refuse to leave him, and would hide in
   his pocket. A woodmouse, whose hole was under his house, would
   first run over his shoes, and at last became so tame that it
   would run up his sleeve, and round the table when he was at
   dinner. Such communion between man and beast has hardly been
   equaled.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (1725)


                       KINDNESS VIOLATING TRUTH

   I am convinced that many glaring crimes and endless cankers
   of the soul are due to lack of the trained will to face the
   full light of truth, and even more to perplexed thinking. An
   Irishman in my city, to help a stupid friend, very kindly passed
   the civil service examination for him, swearing falsely, of
   course, and forging his friend’s name. He was found out and
   sentenced, but the body of public opinion among his set excused
   and even commended him because his motives were kindly, and on
   being released from jail he was banqueted and re-elected to the
   Legislature. I think there was real confusion of thought in
   this case, and that this confusion will continue to disgrace
   our political life until we can bring the growing generation to
   see that kindness to an individual is not to be put ahead of
   truth or of loyalty to the laws of the nation.--ELLA LYMAN
   CABOT, “Proceedings of the National Education Association,”
   1909.

    (1726)


                           KING, HONORING A

   Apropos of the King’s (Edward VII) visit to Biarritz, an
   incident is reported of a recent visit when his Majesty
   witnessed the arrival of cross-country competitors at Villa
   Machelon. Now, this villa belongs to a worthy and prosperous
   Biarritz butcher, who had been requested by the committee to
   place it at the King’s disposal. The butcher’s bosom friends
   held the view that it was absolutely indispensable that the
   master should do the honors of his villa to the King of England,
   his guest. So the butcher fetched out his Sunday suit, arranged
   his braces outside his knitted waistcoat which he invariably
   wears, stuck his hat over his ears, and, freely perspiring under
   the blazing sun, awaited his august visitor.

   King Edward arrived and got down from his motor car. With fine
   scorn for the conventions, the butcher boldly walked up to his
   Majesty, tapped him on the shoulder and said in a drawling voice:

   “Come in; don’t stop in the sun; go up to the salon.”

   A friendly shove accompanied these words. The King grasped the
   situation at a glance, smiled and obeyed, leaving the butcher to
   chew proudly his penny havana on the doorstep. He had done the
   honors of his home, had seen and spoken to his guest, the King.

    (1727)


   =Kingdom of God Composite=--See MOSAIC OF THE KINGDOM.


   =Kingdom of God Within=--See LOYALTY.


                            KING’S KINDNESS

During one of King Edward’s visits to Marienbad in Austria, this
incident occurred:

   A little girl of thirteen named Vera Caro, who has always had a
   great wish to see the King, was walking in the Kaiserstrasse,
   when she suddenly came face to face with his Majesty, who was
   seated on a bench. The little girl impulsively walked up to the
   King, and curtseying presented to him a few roses which she was
   carrying. The King took the flowers, shook hands with the child,
   and thanked her. His Majesty then requested Colonel Ponsonby to
   place the flowers in the carriage which was waiting near. The
   little girl, radiant with joy at the King’s kindness, rushed
   home to inform her parents of her good fortune.

    (1728)

   See LIKENESS OF GOD.


   =Kingship of Christ=--See HOMAGE TO CHRIST.


                                KINSHIP

This poem has the ring of the right kind of sympathy. We do not know
the author:

    If you have a friend worth loving
      Love him, yes, and let him know
    That you love him, ere life’s evening
      Tinge his brow with sunset glow--
    Why should good words ne’er be said,
    Of a friend, until he’s dead?

    If you hear a song that thrills you,
      Sung by any child of song,
    Praise it. Do not let the singer
      Wait deserved praises long;
    Why should one who thrills your heart
    Lack the joy you may impart?

    If you hear a prayer that moves you
      By its humble, pleading tone,
    Join in. Do not let the seeker
      Bow before his Lord alone;
    Why should not your brother share
    The strength of “two or three” in prayer?

    If you see the hot tears falling
      From a brother’s weeping eyes,
    Share them, and by kindly sharing,
      Win your kinship with the skies.
    Why should any one be glad
    When his brother’s heart is sad?

    If a silvery laugh goes rippling
      Through the sunshine on his face,
    Share it. ’Tis the wise man’s saying,
      For both grief and joy a place.
    There’s health and goodness in the mirth
    In which an honest laugh hath birth.

    If your work is made more easy
      By a friendly helping hand,
    Say so. Speak out bravely, truly,
      Ere the darkness veil the land.
    Should a brother workman dear
    Falter for a word of cheer?

    Scatter, then, your germs of kindness,
      All enriching as you go;
    Leave them. Trust the Harvest Giver,
      Who will make each germ to grow.
    So, until the happy end,
    Your life will never lack a friend.

    (1729)


   =Kissing in the East=--See HUSBAND AND WIFE, RELATIONS BETWEEN.


                           KNOWING AND DOING

The Rev. W. L. Watkinson says:

   I read the other day in a paper that a Hindu will pass an
   examination in science; he understands sanitary laws perfectly,
   but some way or other he never seems to understand how to apply
   them. He will go complacently into his own dirty compound and
   break every sanitary law of which he is theoretically master.
   But you need not go to India to find a thing of that kind. You
   will find many men in this country who know the Lord’s will, but
   who never dream of doing it.

    (1730)


                            KNOWING BETTER

   “I did the best I knew!” protested the dressmaker’s apprentice
   sullenly, when she was sharply reprimanded for a piece of
   ill-judged work that ruined a valuable dress and vexed a
   valuable customer. “I don’t see what she’s blaming me for!”

   “I’m not blaming you for doing the best you knew how!” said the
   employer, overhearing and turning on her crisply; “I’m blaming
   you for not knowing any better! You ought to--you’ve been here
   long enough. You mean well, but good intentions aren’t enough to
   carry on the dressmaking business.”

They are not enough in any business. It is an old proverb that good
intentions pave a place of very disreputable character. “He meant well”
is about the poorest thing one can say of a person, short of actual
detraction; unless we except that other phrase of mild apology: “He did
the best he knew how.” Whenever you hear either of these you know at
once that it is a case of failure on somebody’s part to do the right
thing at the right moment, and usually, if you look closely enough,
there was fault behind the failure. To do the best we know how is not
enough when we might know any better.--_Kind Words._

    (1731)


                               KNOWLEDGE

Writing about Lincoln’s life in the Indiana wilderness Mr. James
Morgan, in his life of Abraham Lincoln, says:

   One day a wagon broke down in the road, and the wife and two
   daughters of the owner stayed at the Lincolns’ until it was
   repaired. “The woman had books,” as Abraham recalled in later
   life, “and read us stories. They were the first I ever heard.”
   There never had been a book or a newspaper in the house, and he
   never forgot the sight of those pages nor the woman who, by the
   chance of a breakdown on the road, opened to his mind the field
   of printed knowledge.

    (1732)


   =Knowledge, Ambition for=--See MOTHER LOVE.


   =Knowledge a Necessity=--See DIRECTIONS.


                           KNOWLEDGE APPLIED

   At least one Riverhead (L. I.) little boy, Everett Brown, aged
   about twelve years, son of Mr. and Mrs. Everett Brown, remembers
   to advantage some of the physiology he has studied at school.

   Saturday afternoon he and Frank Terry, about his own age, son
   of Mr. and Mrs. W. A. Terry, went into the woods to build a hut
   or something of that kind, and the ax that the Terry lad was
   wielding cut a bad gash in one of his feet.

   It bled profusely and the Brown lad was afraid his chum would
   bleed to death, so he quickly got the shoe off of the foot and
   bound his handkerchief tightly, closing the wound and largely
   stopping the flow of blood until the wounded boy was gotten
   home, which was some distance away.

   “I learned that in my physiology,” said the Brown boy when Mrs.
   Terry asked him how he thought of it.--Brooklyn _Eagle_.

    (1733)


                       KNOWLEDGE BY INDIRECTION

One minister builded better than he knew, and one hearer learned more
than was meant on the following occasion:

   The preacher was showing that shade and light are both necessary
   in differing conditions. Said he: “Roses, heliotropes and
   geraniums need lots of sunshine, while fuchsias thrive best in
   the shade.” “Oh, doctor,” said a good woman at the close, “I’m
   so grateful to you for your sermon this morning. I never knew
   before what was the matter with my fuchsias.”

    (1734)


                        KNOWLEDGE, COMPARATIVE

   A missionary’s son, born on the field, was making his first
   visit to his parents’ home in a small Ohio town. One day a
   neighbor burst into the yard with the great news. “The circus is
   coming!”

   “What’s a circus?” innocently inquired the young Korea-American.

   “A circus! Don’t you know what a circus is? Haven’t you ever
   seen a circus?” And scorn passing words filled the Ohio lad’s
   voice, as he eyed in boundless contempt this queer visitor.

   The boy from Korea was stung to the quick, and he retorted:
   “Well, what of that? Did you ever see the Pacific Ocean? Were
   you ever on a warship? Did you ever see Hongkong? Did you ever
   see the diving boys at Colombo? Were you ever in India? Did you
   ever see the pyramids? What do you know about London?”

   Vengeance was complete. The devotee of the circus was silenced.
   Before these bigger wonders his traveling tent show grew very
   small indeed. Similarly, the man who follows the trail of the
   missionary may lose his intimate contact with some of the
   inconsequentialities of the day’s newspaper, but he will have
   big and abiding compensations.--WILLIAM T. ELLIS, “Men
   and Missions.”

    (1735)


   =Knowledge in Action=--See TEACHER, THE IDEAL AT WORK.


                           KNOWLEDGE, LIVING

   Some one asked Dr. Arnold, of Rugby, why he continued to study
   for his pupils “as tho he should not have enough to give them.”
   “It is not,” was his reply, “because I fear I should not have
   enough to give them, but because I prefer that they should be
   supplied from a running stream rather than from a stagnant pool.”

“Stagnant pools” have been the ruin of many men in many walks of life.

    (1736)


                         KNOWLEDGE, THIRST FOR

   Thurlow Weed was so poor in boyhood that on a cold March day
   he had to wrap pieces of cloth about his bare feet in place
   of socks and shoes. Thus shod, he walked several miles in the
   wintry cold to borrow a history of the Reformation.

    (1737)

       *       *       *       *       *

   William Elbert Munsey was born upon a Virginia mountain farm,
   which was so poor that a disturbance could not be raised upon
   it, much less the articles of food which produce a thrifty
   physical manhood. After toiling in the field all day, he would
   carry wood upon his tired, youthful back for a mile, that his
   widowed mother and five brothers and sisters might have warmth
   from the evening fire; he went to school only twelve months
   in his life, but he ate the heart out of every book that came
   within his reach; while plowing he would keep his book at the
   end of the furrow, and when he had plowed a “round,” he would
   talk with his tongueless companion for a few moments, “and then
   push on between the plow handles,” the great thoughts ringing in
   his soul like the tolling of a cathedral bell.

   Well, what kind of a man did he make? Let one who heard him
   deliver his famous lecture on “Man” answer the question: “The
   vast amount of scientific knowledge he had stored his mind with
   was truly amazing.

   He spoke as if he had been a professor in every branch of
   science for a lifetime. Every technical term was at his tongue’s
   end. Man was presented in spirit, soul and body as the most
   wonderful trichotomy of the universe; was analyzed, synthetized,
   exalted and glorified as the last and grandest work of God. He
   soared amid clouds and lightning and thunder and tempests; he
   was as familiar with anatomy as if he had been a Sir Charles
   Bell; with mental phenomena, as if he had been a John Locke;
   with mythology, as if he had been born a Greek and had lived
   in Greece a thousand years.” At the conclusion of his sermons,
   congregations have been so “bewildered as to rise up in an
   unconscious way, facing each other, and not knowing for some
   moments whether to remain or leave the room.” But how old was
   this wonderful man when he died? Just a little over forty years
   of age. Like David Livingstone in the African hut, William
   Elbert Munsey was found dead upon his knees by the side of his
   bed.--F. F. SHANNON.

    (1738)


                     KNOWLEDGE THROUGH EXPERIENCE

A news item from Denver, Colorado, says:

   Determined to learn at first hand where and how the homeless
   and shivering men live who slept on the street, E. A. Brown,
   cousin of President W. C. Brown, of the New York Central, and
   himself independently rich, has been haunting the railroad and
   stock-yards and the slums of Denver for weeks. Drest in shabby
   and threadbare clothes, he has mingled with the unemployed and
   shared their experiences. He will use this experience to aid in
   securing the establishment of a municipal lodging-house, which
   will shelter the homeless during the winter months.

This is the scientific method of the social student to-day. It was
first, however, the method of Christ. “He came to seek and to save that
which was lost.” (Text.)

    (1739)


                          KNOWLEDGE, UNITY OF

   The man who should know the true history of the bit of chalk
   which every carpenter carries about in his breeches pocket, tho
   ignorant of all other history, is likely, if he will think his
   knowledge out to its ultimate results, to have a truer, and,
   therefore, a better, conception of this wonderful universe, and
   of man’s relation to it, than the most learned student who is
   deep-read in the records of humanity and ignorant of those of
   nature. (Text.)--THOMAS HENRY HUXLEY.

    (1740)


                           KNOWLEDGE VALUES

   All wealth is intelligence applied to raw material. The piece
   of paper cost half a farthing, but Tennyson’s poem written
   thereupon made it worth a thousand dollars. Just as a little
   canvas, worth two or three francs, took on a value of $200,000
   when Millet mixed the colors with his genius and spread them
   over the waiting cloth. Civilization is a height on which
   man climbs hand over hand up the golden rounds of wisdom and
   knowledge.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1741)


                     KONGO PIONEER MISSIONARY WORK

   Up the Kongo we went. One day Mr. Lapsley, my comrade, was sick
   with fever. As we attempted to land, we saw women catching up
   their babies and running to the jungle and men getting arrows to
   shoot. I stood over Mr. Lapsley and called, “Don’t shoot! Don’t
   shoot!” and asked them if we could sleep there for the night.
   “To-morrow we go away,” I said. “No. Go away; go away,” they
   cried. So we started for the other side and landed on the sandy
   bank. We got out the tent and had Mr. Lapsley carefully moved
   into his bed. Walking up and down the river bank we could hear
   the excitement on the other side. At twelve o’clock at night it
   still was going on. At two in the morning, those people had not
   retired; nor had I. So we said, “In the morning something will
   happen.” Coming outside early, as we looked across the river we
   saw one of their war canoes filled with men starting up-stream,
   and then another. I ran to the tent and said to Mr. Lapsley,
   “Those people are coming; what shall I do?” He was there sick
   with fever, with no chance of running away. He said, “There
   is nothing that we can do.” He meant by this that the Master
   could do something. I came outside. They had started in our
   direction. I could hear their war-whoop. Just at this extremity
   a hippopotamus came. We shot him. Then the thought came, why
   not offer them this meat? They were crazy for meat. I waded
   in the water to my waist and beckoned to them, calling out:
   “Come this way, all of you. Don’t be afraid.” The nearest canoe
   approached me as I was wading in the water, and I surprized the
   first man by saying, “Leave your spear.” The next canoe load
   that followed I turned the hippopotamus over to, and then they
   began with their long knives to cut it up and fight over it. I
   went into the tent and told Mr. Lapsley that we were saved. It
   was no surprize to that servant of God. He was so near to the
   Master always that he believed He would save us.--WILLIAM
   SHEPPARD, “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (1742)


                      KOREA, WORK AMONG WOMEN IN

   As I was going along a country road one day, I saw a woman
   going along with a hoe, and behind her was a man with a burden
   on his back; and this burden, as we drew closer, we saw to be
   the form of a baby. It was wrapt up according to the custom.
   They climbed the hill and put the burden on the ground, and the
   mother threw herself upon the dead form of the child and cried
   out her broken heart, while the father began to dig the grave.
   We tried to comfort her the best we could, but her grief seemed
   too deep, and she did not understand that Christ was the only
   one who could comfort her. The following Sunday I saw in our
   meeting one of our women who had been a Christian only about six
   months, a woman who had been told by her neighbors that if she
   became a Christian a very dangerous spirit would haunt her and
   bring calamity to her. She did not falter, but by and by her
   only child, a little girl, whom she dearly loved, was taken from
   her. This Sunday, as she stood with the tears streaming down her
   face, she told how the beautiful little girl had died, but that
   she did not grieve so much, because, as she said, “I am going
   to meet her there with Jesus.” I could not but think of that
   other woman whom I saw heart-broken on the mountain-side just
   a few days before.--LULU E. FREY, “Student Volunteer
   Movement,” 1906.

    (1743)

   See DAUGHTER’S ESTIMATED.


   =Korean, The, as a Giver=--See GENEROSITY.




                                   L


                          LABELS, MISLEADING

   Not long ago this country woke up to the fact that with a good
   deal of our canned food we were not getting just what the
   colored label on the outside of the can led us to suppose. It
   was a shocking disillusionment to find that the label showed
   luscious peach jelly, when the inside of the can contained only
   some nicely prepared and flavored gelatine, quite innocent of
   any relation to peaches. The country at once had indigestion,
   and passed laws to keep the peaches and the labels in the
   neighborhood of the same can.

   The labels on persons are also misleading, because one can
   see the label but not always the real person. The titles and
   degrees are supposed to be descriptive of the owner’s brains,
   and sometimes they are; but they are not always accurate, and
   they never make brains. A university might confer a B.A. or an
   LL.D. on a lineal descendant of Balaam’s beast of burden, and
   yet it would not make him wise.--JAMES M. STIFLER, “The
   Fighting Saint.”

    (1744)

   See ENVY GRATIFIED; NEW, THE.


                                 LABOR

This song of labor is by Caroline A. Lord:

    They are working, beneath the sun,
      In its red-hot, blinding glare,
    In the dust from the toiling teams,
      In the noise of the thoroughfare
    See them swing and bend, far down to the end
      With the rhythm of the strokes they bear.

    The cords of the sinewy arms
      Stand out like the cable’s twist;
    No blow shall miss and no stroke shall fail
      From the grasp of the brawny fist,
    As the shoulder swings when the pickax rings
      And the hand springs firm from the wrist.

    Let the feet of the dainty shod
      Pass by on the other side,
    Where the youth of the slender back and limb
      Stands watching--the listless-eyed;
    While with sweat and with pain and the long day’s strain
      These toil--and are satisfied.

    (1745)


   =Labor, A Hero of=--See ENERGY INDOMITABLE.


                            LABOR, AVOIDING

   “I like to sew where there is no thread in the machine, it runs
   so easily,” said a little girl.

   A good many people, I think, are pretty fond of running their
   machines without thread.

   When I hear a boy talking very largely of the grand things
   he would do if he only could and if things and circumstances
   were only different, and then neglecting every daily duty and
   avoiding work and lessons, I think he is running his machine
   without any thread.

   When I see a girl very sweet and pleasant abroad, ready to do
   anything for a stranger, and cross and disagreeable in her home,
   she, too, is running her machine without any thread.

   Ah, this sewing without thread is very easy indeed, and the life
   machine will make a great buzzing! But labor, time, and force
   will in the end be far worse than lost.--_The Friend._

    (1746)


                           LABOR BY PATIENTS

   Patient labor at the Elgin State Hospital (Illinois) has become
   one of the most striking features in any of the seventeen
   charitable institutions of Illinois.

   Fiscal Supervisor Whipp, of the State Board of Administration,
   has just returned from Elgin, where he has been investigating
   the construction of buildings of cement blocks veneered with
   granite.

   Patients have already built a cold storage room and bath-house,
   and now are at work on a cottage for the acute insane. They
   make the veneered blocks in the basement of the institution in
   winter. The process itself is comparatively new. It has been
   employed no more than a year at Elgin, but has worked out with
   remarkable success--Boston _Journal_.

    (1747)


                        LABOR FOR THE COMMUNITY

   The worker bee is never found loafing while the sun is shining.
   Their work is wholly for the hive; for the community that is,
   and they not infrequently work themselves to death gathering and
   carrying pollen, with which they load themselves down heavily.

The work of the truly unselfish life is a willingness to work, and even
if need be, to die for the good of mankind.

    (1748)


                             LABOR IN VAIN

   The Pyramids of Egypt are among the seven wonders of the world.
   Cheops, said to be the largest of them all, covers an area of
   over thirteen acres, is larger than Madison Square, New York,
   and twice the height of Trinity Church spire. It contains enough
   material to build a city as large as Washington, including all
   its public buildings. Four hundred thousand men were employed
   twenty years to build it. The purpose of its erection was that
   it might be the tomb of kings.

   How much better would have been the result if all this labor had
   been spent to serve those who were alive and the then future
   generations.

    (1749)


                        LABOR, OPPORTUNITY FOR

The verses below carrying a helpful lesson, are by Ellen M. H. Gates:

    If you can not on the ocean
      Sail among the swiftest fleet,
    Rocking on the highest billows,
      Laughing at the storms you meet
    You can stand among the sailors,
      Anchored yet within the bay;
    You can lend a hand to help them,
      As they launch their boats away.

    If you are too weak to journey
      Up the mountain, steep and high,
    You can stand within the valley,
      While the multitudes go by;
    You can chant in happy measure,
      As they slowly pass along;
    Tho they may forget the singer,
      They will not forget the song.

           *       *       *       *       *

    Do not, then, stand idly waiting
      For some greater work to do;
    Fortune is a lazy goddess--
      She will never come to you.
    Go and toil in any vineyard,
      Do not fear to do or dare;
    If you want a field of labor,
      You can find it anywhere. (Text.)

    (1750)


                         LABOR-SAVING DEVICES

   I have heard old men say that the mere easy use of
   friction-matches saves every day for each active man and woman
   ten minutes of life. I think that is true. You are not old
   enough to remember the adventures of the boy called out of his
   bed in the morning to go and fetch a pan of coals from the next
   neighbor’s. The lad tumbles into his clothes, plows through the
   snow, finds that Mrs. Smith’s luck has been better than his
   mother’s, and the careful ashes of her hearth have preserved the
   vestal fire. A glowing brand is given him in his warming-pan,
   and he returns in triumph home. The alternative would have been
   to strike flint against steel, not to say against knuckles,
   till a reluctant spark fell on tinder equally reluctant, till
   this was fanned by careful breath till it would light a match
   which would light a candle. The journey to Mrs. Smith’s was, on
   the whole, light in comparison. Does one trivial invention save
   twenty minutes a day in each household, ten minutes to a man,
   ten minutes to a woman? That is a saving for this nation of more
   than twice the amount of work which Cheops put upon his pyramid,
   and so much addition to the real resources of the world is made
   by that one invention.--EDWARD EVERETT HALE.

    (1751)

   See PRECAUTION.


   =Lad with Ready Answer=--See EARLY RELIGION.


   =Lamb, The, Slain=--See CHRIST THE LAMB.


                        LANGUAGE, FORMATION OF

   For three centuries after the battle of Hastings French was
   the language of the upper classes, of courts and schools and
   literature; yet so tenaciously did the common people cling to
   their own strong speech that in the end English absorbed almost
   the whole body of French words and became the language of the
   land. It was the welding of Saxon and French into one speech
   that produced the wealth of our modern English.--WILLIAM J.
   LONG, “English Literature.”

    (1752)


   =Large-heartedness=--See FRIEND, THE ORPHAN’S.


   =Larger, The, Extinguishing the Smaller=--See SUNLIGHT
      AND STARLIGHT.


                        LAST RESORT OF A WOMAN

   “I am not Mrs. Nation; I have no hatchet; I am not crazy.”

   These words came from the lips of a Lewis woman, as she met her
   husband face to face in a hotel barroom the other evening, says
   the Lewis _Pilot_. They were directed to the bartender and
   the loungers, as the former handed the woman’s husband a glass
   of whisky.

   She continued: “That man has not done a day’s work this winter,
   and I am worn out trying to support him and the rest of the
   family. I want to know if something can not be done to keep him
   from destroying his own life and starving his family?”

   The woman was thin and pale. Her lips quivered as she spoke.
   Her frail body could hardly stand the strain of the unfamiliar
   environment. As she finished the little girl by her side burst
   into tears, the bartender took back the whisky, the abashed
   husband stood with bowed head, one by one the loungers left
   the room. Presently the bartender, gazing at the poor woman,
   solemnly vowed that the man should not drink at his bar again.

   It was a pathetic scene; it was the last resort of a desperate
   woman. As she left the hotel with her husband and the little
   girl there was a lesson too painful for any pen to picture.

    (1753)


   =Last Words=--See DEATH COMPELLING SINCERITY.


                         LATENT POSSIBILITIES

Beauty of character may be evolved out of the most unpromising material
which only seems fit to be flung forth and burned. If a child cries we
should try to make it laugh; if we meet melancholy folk, we should seek
to cheer them; if they have to live in contact with evil tempers, we
must endeavor to sweeten them.

   At certain seasons of the year some great conservatories are
   full of ugly plants, with terrible spines sticking out of
   great, fat, succulent, selfish-looking leaves. These plants
   are cacti. They wear only a frightful and repellent aspect.
   Yet they are favorites of the horticulturist. He waters them
   and nurtures them. And suddenly the whole place is ablaze with
   their unspeakable loveliness. They have burst into glorious
   efflorescence, and spectators come to look on them with joy and
   wonder. Many of them bloom, especially in the night.

    (1754)

   See POSSIBILITIES, LATENT.


                     LATIN AMERICA AND THE GOSPEL

   There are inhabitants of three hundred towns in the Philippine
   Islands to-day who are stretching out their hands to America
   for Christian missionaries, and there is not a single person to
   go. Do they need us? I reply by telling you an incident. I sent
   a man named Nicholas Zamora, one of our preachers, out about
   four or five miles from the city. The man has a good voice; it
   is like a bell, and you can hear it four or five blocks. They
   were singing for about ten minutes, when a policeman came along
   and rushed the whole company off to jail. We have a saying in
   the Philippines that our converts do not have any backbone until
   they have been in jail about three times. They did not have any
   regular jail, using instead the lower floor in the policeman’s
   house. When they arrived there, Nicholas said: “Well, we are
   here; I guess we might as well do something”; and they began to
   sing the first verse of “Nearer, my God, to Thee.” The policeman
   came down-stairs and said that singing must cease, and went back
   up-stairs. Nicholas said, “I guess we might as well have the
   second verse,” and they began to sing it. The policeman came
   down again in high dudgeon and berated them most vigorously;
   and having cooled off, he went up-stairs again. Nicholas said,
   “We will now have the third verse.” The policeman came down
   again as they were starting in strongly on the third verse.
   This was too much for the policeman, who said in anger: “Get
   out of here, and go right back to America. I don’t propose
   to have any psalm-singing Methodists in my jail.”--J. L.
   MCLAUGHLIN, “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (1755)


                           LAUGHING PLANT, A

   Palgrave, in his work on Central and Eastern Arabia, mentions
   a plant whose seeds produce effects analogous to those of
   laughing-gas. The plant is a native of Arabia. A dwarf
   variety is found at Kasum, and another variety at Oman, which
   attains a height of from three to four feet, with woody
   stems, wide-spreading branches, and light green foliage. The
   flowers are produced in clusters and are yellow in color. The
   seed-pods contain two or three black seeds of the size and
   shape of a French bean. Their flavor is a little like that of
   opium, the taste is sweet, and the odor from them produces a
   sickening sensation and is slightly offensive. These seeds,
   when pulverized and taken in small doses, operate on a person
   in a very peculiar manner. He begins to laugh loudly and
   boisterously, and then sings, dances, and cuts up all kinds of
   fantastic capers. The effect continues about an hour, and the
   patient is extremely comical. When the excitement ceases, the
   exhausted individual falls into a deep sleep, which continues
   for an hour or more, and when he awakens, he is utterly
   unconscious that any such demonstrations have been made by
   him.--_Scientific American._

    (1756)


                               LAUGHTER

Albert J. Beveridge, United States Senator from Indiana, believes that
the direction of his career was completely changed by a careless laugh.
A writer in _Success_ quotes him as saying:

   When I was a youth in Illinois I heard that the Congressman
   from our district intended to hold an examination to determine
   what young man he should appoint to West Point. I pitched in
   and studied hard for that examination, and found it easy when I
   came to take it. Most of the other fellows seemed to be still
   struggling with it when I had finished, and I was so confident
   that I had made few mistakes that I was in a pretty cheerful
   frame of mind. This is why I laughed when one of the strugglers
   asked a rather foolish question of the professor in charge.
   The latter evidently felt that the dignity of the occasion had
   been trifled with, for he scored one per cent against me. When
   the papers came to be corrected this loss caused me to fall
   one-fifth of one per cent below the boy who stood highest on the
   list. He is a captain in the army now, where I suppose I should
   be had it not been for that laugh. I believe in the power of
   cheerfulness. Looking back, I am rather glad that I laughed.
   (Text.)

    (1757)


                          LAUGHTER AS A VENT

   It might be said of Lamb, as of Abraham Lincoln, “laughter
   was his vent”; if he had not laughed, he would have died of a
   frenzied brain or of a broken heart. With Lamb the maddest mood
   of frolic was a rebound from the blackest mood of melancholia;
   a fact which Carlyle, who did know Lamb’s history, might have
   remembered before he used the phrase “diluted insanity,”
   which, in view of that sad history, is nothing less than
   brutal.--W. J. DAWSON, “The Makers of English Prose.”

    (1758)


                          LAUGHTER, PERILS OF

   There is certainly no harm in a good laugh, and truly it is
   not forbidden to a jester to speak the truth. Yet the laugh
   must have the right ring to it. Socrates laughed, and Voltaire
   laughed, as Thomas Erskine remarked; yet, as he said, what a
   difference in the laugh of the two! And the man who laughs all
   the time will not know what to do when the hour of weeping
   comes. The laughing philosopher is a very shallow philosopher or
   else a very shallow laugher. An awful gravity which comes from
   a man taking himself too seriously is a thing which irresistibly
   invites a tweaking of the nose; but a ridicule which beats and
   splashes on all sides and at all times, fixing its pasquinades
   nightly on the statues of our national heroes, smirking in the
   presence of names and thoughts that ought to be shrouded in
   sacred reverence, is one of the things that no right soul can
   abide.--_Christian Union._

    (1759)


                          LAUGHTER, PROVOKING

   The doctor who could not laugh and make me laugh I should put
   down for a half-educated man. It is one of the duties of the
   profession to hunt for the material of a joke on every corner.
   Most of them have so esteemed it. Garth, Rabelais, Abernethy,
   and a hundred or so more too near to be named, what genial,
   liver-shaking, heart-quickening, wit-waking worthies they were
   and are! To the son who loves her best, nature reveals most
   her tricks of workmanship. He knows there is a prize in every
   package of commonplace and sadness, and he can find it--not only
   the bit of fun shining to the eye of a connoisseur like an unset
   jewel, but the eccentricity, the resemblance, the revelation,
   countless signs and tokens of the evanescent, amusing,
   pathetic creature we call the human.--A. B. WARD,
   _Scribner’s_.

    (1760)


                          LAUGHTER, VALUE OF

   To what a dreary, dismal complexion should we all come at last,
   were all fun and cachinnation expunged from our solemn and
   scientific planet! Care would soon overwhelm us; the heart would
   corrode; the river of life would be like the lake of the dismal
   swamp; we should begin our career with a sigh, and end it with
   a groan; while cadaverous faces and words to the tune of “The
   Dead March in Saul,” would make up the whole interlude of our
   existence. Hume, the historian, in examining a French manuscript
   containing accounts of some private disbursements of King Edward
   II of England, found, among others, one item of a crown paid
   to somebody for making the king laugh. Could one conceive of
   a wiser investment? Perhaps by paying one crown Edward saved
   another. “The most utterly lost of all days,” says Chamfort, “is
   that on which you have not once laughed.” Even that grimmest
   and most saturnine of men, who, tho he made others roar with
   merriment, was never known to smile, and who died “in a rage,
   like a poisoned rat in a hole”--Dean Swift--has called laughter
   “the most innocent of all diuretics.” (Text.)--WILLIAM
   MATTHEWS, _Home Magazine_.

    (1761)


                             LAW AND GRACE

One of the notable figures in the history of the American Navy is that
of Admiral Porter. Wise in counsel and daring in execution, he has
left his impression very deep upon its development and traditions. At
one time he was in command of the Naval Academy at Annapolis when the
following incident occurred:

   General Grant was on a visit to the Academy. As he stood
   watching the evolutions of the midshipmen, the general had his
   ever-present cigar in his mouth. The marine on duty walked up to
   the general and said, “General, I beg pardon, but it is against
   the rules to smoke in the academy.” “All right,” replied the
   general, and, with soldierly promptness, he proceeded to take
   the cigar from his mouth. At that instant Admiral Porter stept
   forward and said, “I abrogate that rule.” (Text.)

    (1762)


                             LAW AND LOVE

A boisterous New-year’s eve reveler, by the name of Downey, was
arrested on a Third Avenue elevated train in New York City:

   After listening to the testimony Magistrate Cornell decided that
   Downey’s New-year’s enthusiasm had been excessive, and that
   he must pay ten dollars to the city treasury. Downey had used
   all his available cash in celebrating, and he was about to be
   led to the court prison, when his wife, who had been tearfully
   listening to the evidence, fell in a faint. She was lifted up
   by Callahan, the policeman who arrested her husband, and who
   revived her and then inquired if she had any money with which to
   pay the fine.

   “Not a penny,” she replied, “and poor Jack will have to go to
   jail. He’s such a good husband, too,” and the little woman wept.

   “I won’t let him go to jail,” said Callahan, and he drew a
   ten-dollar bill from his pocket and handed it to the clerk.
   Thereupon the Downeys fell on his neck and wept for joy.

    (1763)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Love is, in the spiritual world, what the powers of attraction,
   resulting in beautiful harmonies of combination and
   interrelation are seen to be in the physical. But the subject
   of the law which claims love from moral beings must freely
   accept its beneficent rule; while the crystal can not choose
   another finish for its angles, or the star select for itself a
   rule which will square it instead of rounding it.--RICHARD
   S. STORRS.

    (1764)


                             LAW ENFORCED

   Violating a petty township ordinance on a hunting expedition
   on Long Island, his friends were indignant when Garibaldi was
   hauled before a local magistrate, as described in a recent
   number of the _Century_. To the protests and condolences,
   the patriot replied: “No, friends, these officers of the law
   have done nothing more than their duty and I deserve the
   correction. The Americans make and enforce the laws proper to
   the regulating of their own communities, just as we hope some
   day to do with ours in Italy.”

    (1765)


                       LAW FOR THE TRANSGRESSOR

   In certain places we see regulations like these placarded: “No
   smoking allowed,” “No betting allowed,” “No swearing allowed”;
   and we perceive at once the kind of place we are in, and the
   kind of people who usually frequent them--that is sufficiently
   clear from the prohibitory legislation. We never think of
   putting up such regulations in a temple. So the commandments
   of Moses assume this to be a sinful world; they are addrest
   to sinners; there is in them the idiom of impeachment and
   condemnation.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured
   Sackcloth.”

    (1766)


   =Law, Help=--See PROHIBITION AS A BENEFACTOR.


   =Law, Impartial Enforcement of=--See IMPARTIALITY.


   =Law in Earlier Times=--See PUNISHMENT, FORMER SEVERITY OF.


   =Law, Invariable=--See GRAVITATION, LAW OF.


                              LAW, MORAL

   We teach children that two and two are four, but not that it
   is wrong to tell lies as a bookkeeper. We teach them that fire
   burns, in science, but in morals we do not tell them that the
   boy who tries to satisfy his hunger for pleasure with sin, is
   one who eats red-hot coals when he is hungry. We tell the girl
   that hot water scalds, but we do not tell her that there are
   passions and pleasures through selfishness that blight the soul,
   and do not satisfy, just as scalding water and boiling oil, and
   carbolic acid will not satisfy thirst.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1767)


   =Law More Than the Individual=--See IMPARTIALITY.


                             LAW, NATURAL

   The laws of matter are simply the mode in which matter in
   virtue of its constitution acts. Oxygen unites chemically with
   hydrogen, in certain proportions, under certain conditions,
   simply because of the qualities or attributes wherewith these
   two gases are invested. It is not the law which determines the
   combination, but the qualities which determine the law. These
   elements act as they act, simply because they are what they are.

    (1768)


                           LAW, OBEDIENCE TO

   The world has no place in it for a lawless man. What we call
   liberty is really a form of obedience to law, and whatever
   you may achieve later in life will represent the discovery of
   law and the instant acceptance thereof. The Indian obeys one
   law--and can therefore swim the river. Obeying the law of fire,
   he achieves a canoe, hollowed out with the flame. Obeying the
   law of the wind, nature fills his sail, and releases him from
   bondage to the oar; obeying the law of steam, nature gives the
   man a ship. Obeying the law of electricity, his car doubles its
   speed. Obeying the law of the air, the man spreads his wings
   like a bird.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1769)


   =Law Prohibiting Evil=--See COCAINE RESTRICTIONS.


                       LAW, SEVERITY OF ANCIENT

   On February 9, 1810, Romilly, the great reformer, obtained
   leave to bring in three bills to repeal the acts which punish
   with death the crimes of stealing privately in a shop goods
   of the value of five shillings, and of stealing to the amount
   of forty shillings in dwelling-houses or on board vessels of
   navigable rivers. In May that relating to shops was passed, the
   two others were opposed by the Government. But on May 30 the
   former bill was rejected by the House of Lords by a majority of
   31 to 11. There were no less than seven bishops who voted for
   the old cruel law. These learned Christian gentlemen devoutly
   believed that transportation for life was not a sufficiently
   severe punishment for the offense of pilfering what is of
   five shillings’ value (dollar and a quarter).--EDWARD
   GILLIAT, “Heroes of Modern Crusades.”

    (1770)


   =Lawless Business Men=--See MISERY AN EDUCATOR.


                              LAWLESSNESS

We see in the following incident how men who break law forfeit the
right to secure the protection of the law:

   A man in the preventive service on the south coast told this
   history to Mrs. Norton, the authoress. He said he had once
   been a smuggler. Desiring to reform he went to his smuggling
   companions and demanded his share (one-third) of the boat, as he
   wanted to leave the partnership. They refused, and laughed at
   his demand; tho he offered to refer the claim to an arbitrator,
   they only laughed the more. This exasperated him; so he went
   out one night and sawed off a third of the boat. This did him
   no good, but the expense to his companions would be more than
   his share if they had peaceably given it to him. Mrs. Norton
   made some comments on this method of redress, to which the man
   rejoined: “Yes, marm, but you see they darn’t nor I darn’t
   complain at law, ’cos it was a smuggling craft; and that’s how
   it would always be, if there was no law, a man wud try and right
   hisself, and if he couldn’t, he’d revenge hisself. That just
   it.” (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and
   Lawyers.”

    (1771)


                        LAWLESSNESS, SPRINGS OF

   It was recently my good fortune to be invited to talk to a club
   of Jewish boys. Among other matters I talked to them about
   law and lawlessness, and tried to show that the spirit of
   lawlessness, now so rife in this country, manifests itself at
   first in little ways. I reminded them of the wanton lawlessness
   of automobile drivers in exceeding speed limits, and then I
   sought to bring the illustration close home to them by asking
   if they ever saw a fellow at a ball-game, where scores of men
   were standing in line waiting for their turn to get a ticket,
   pass up to the head of the line and surreptitiously induce some
   friend there, or even a stranger, to buy a ticket for him, and
   thus take advantage of all those who had come before him. They
   all recognized the illustration. It is a very common incident
   in American life. Then I pointed out that such a proceeding
   is a rank violation of the law of courtesy and fair play, and
   that any one who would do that thing ruthlessly is sowing the
   seeds of lawlessness, and may some day expect to reap the
   consequences.--GEORGE W. COLEMAN, “Searchlights.”

    (1772)


   =Laymen, Opportunities of=--See PEW, IF I WERE IN THE.


                         LAZINESS, EXCUSE FOR

   In the book of Proverbs is this verse: “The sluggard saith,
   ‘There is a lion without; I shall be slain in the street.’”
   This means that a lazy man did not wish to go to work, and so
   pretended that there was a lion in the street, and offered as an
   excuse for not going to work that the lion in the street would
   kill him if he went out.

   It is a fact that every lazy boy and every indolent girl has
   a lion; that is, some excuse for not doing what is asked. A
   daughter is told to do her piano practising and exclaims: “Oh,
   I can’t! It is so cold in the parlor” (lazy man’s lion). A son
   is asked to run to the store on an errand and answers that his
   shoe hurts his foot when he walks (lazy man’s lion). On Sunday
   morning he can not go to church because it is rainy (lazy man’s
   lion). He can not study his lessons because his eyes hurt him
   (lazy man’s lion). She can not eat the crusts of her bread
   because her gums are sore (lazy man’s lion). She can not get up
   in time for breakfast because her throat pains her (lazy man’s
   lion).

   Look out for the lazy man’s lion, that foolish excuse for
   not doing what we should do!--E. H. BYINGTON,
   _Congregationalist_.

    (1773)


                         LEADERSHIP, FAITHFUL

   Sir Garnet Wolseley, in his Egyptian campaign against Arabi
   Pasha at Tel-el-Kebir, selected a Scotch Highlander to lead his
   force over the desert sands by the light of the stars, so timing
   the silent march as to reach the point of assault at daybreak.
   March and assault were successful, but the poor Highlander fell
   mortally wounded. Sir Garnet, learning of this, went over to the
   brave man, who, seeing his commander, said: “Didn’t I lead them
   straight?”

Happy the Christian guide who in death can make a similar claim. (Text.)

    (1774)


   =Leaf, The Form of a=--See CREATION, A WITNESS OF.


   =Leaners and Lifters=--See LIFTERS AND LEANERS.


                          LEARNING BY EXAMPLE

   Prof. Lloyd Morgan made some interesting experiments in the
   instincts of birds, by rearing chickens and wild fowl from an
   incubator, so that they never could have learned anything from
   their parents. He found that they needed to be taught almost
   everything necessary to the proper conduct of their lives--not
   only to distinguish what was good to eat, but even the very
   acts of eating and drinking. They showed no fear of the human
   race, and plainly did not understand the language of their own
   mother when he placed them near her. The mothercluck of the hen
   had no meaning for the incubator chick, who nevertheless came
   promptly when he called. These experiments proved conclusively
   that young birds are taught--or learn by imitation, which is
   the same thing--to eat and drink, to understand their native
   tongue, to recognize and procure their food, and to fear
   mankind.--OLIVE THORNE MILLER, “The Bird Our Brother.”

    (1775)


                         LEARNING PROCESS, THE

   A young boy learns to play golf largely by taking the sticks
   as he has seen some one hold them and whacking at the ball in
   a haphazard fashion. Sometimes he hits it squarely, and then
   he gets a satisfaction that tends to impress on him the memory
   of the movement resulting in this satisfaction. He tries the
   next time to reproduce this feeling and to locate the point
   of difference, tho he is or may be conscious of none of these
   efforts on his part. He keeps trying and trying until he
   succeeds, noting meanwhile the ways other people stand, hold
   their clubs, and swing, and comparing them with his way. An
   old man, on the other hand, tries this method but makes no
   such progress. He is not free to establish a dozen new ways
   of getting a swing as the boy is. He has one or two already
   established ways of turning on his feet and of swinging his
   arms, but these unfortunately are not such as to help him
   in his golf. He must, therefore, not merely recognize and
   strive for the details of the right way, but he must more
   or less consciously break up the old ways. His chances are
   poor of success unless he is wisely directed; _i.e._,
   taught.--STUART H. ROWE, “Proceedings of the Religious
   Education Association,” 1907.

    (1776)


   =Learning Transformed Into Life=--See PRINCIPLES, MASTERING.


   =Leisure=--See TIME, IMPROVING.


   =Lessons, Class=--See ENCOURAGEMENT.


                               LETHARGY

   In some parts of Africa the natives are attacked with
   “sleeping-sickness.” The first symptom is drowsiness, and the
   following days and weeks drift past in sleep. The sleep grows
   deeper and heavier until the sufferer has passed out into the
   unknown, to the sleep that knows no waking.

   Sleeping-sickness, in a moral sense, is a common disease in the
   world. It is often as fatal to activity and character as the
   dread plague of Africa is to the body. The temperature of the
   heart falls, the soul sleep deepens, God is forgotten, Christ
   forsaken. (Text.)

    (1777)


                             LETTER OF GOD

An incident is related of William Duncan, the “Apostle of Alaska”:

   One day soon after Mr. Duncan had arrived among the Indians
   there, a fine-looking old Indian chief, Neyashtodoh, one of
   the chiefs of the Kitlahns, who had three sons, called upon
   him. “I have heard that you have come here with the letter of
   God. Is that so? Have you the letter of God with you?” asked
   the chief. “I have,” said Mr. Duncan. “Would you mind showing
   it to me?” “Certainly.” Mr. Duncan placed a large Bible on the
   table. “This is God’s Book.” The Indian caressed it reverently.
   “Is God’s letter for the Tsimsheans?” “Certainly. God sent this
   Book to your people, as well as to mine.” “Does that Book give
   God’s ‘heart’ to us?” “It does.” “And are you going to tell the
   Indians that?” “I am.” “It is good--it is good, chief,” was the
   answer of Neyashtodoh.

    (1778)


                               LEVELING

   “‘Washing a hill away’ is a process employed by a
   land-improvement company near Baltimore,” says _Indoors and
   Out_. “The summit of a hill was to be lowered about nine
   feet. The operations covered an area fifteen hundred feet long
   and three hundred feet wide. From a stream near by water was
   forced at eighty pounds pressure through eight-inch pipes to a
   five-inch reducing nozzle and then against the wall of earth.
   This fell in cartloads every few minutes, and so thin was it,
   with the water added, as to be easily conveyed through pipes to
   an abandoned pond which the company wished to fill as a part of
   the improvement plans.” (Text.)

The streams of Christian influence are leveling society by washing away
human pride and building up the humble.

    (1779)


   =Levity=--See GRAVITY.


                             LIAR EXPOSED

   In a large factory in which were employed several hundred
   persons, one of the workmen, in wielding his hammer, carelessly
   allowed it to slip from his hand. It flew half way across
   the room, and struck a fellow workman in the left eye. The
   man averred that his eye was blinded by the blow, altho a
   careful examination failed to reveal any injury, there being
   not a scratch visible. He brought a suit in the courts for
   compensation for the loss of half of his eyesight, and refused
   all offers of compromise. Under the law, the owner of the
   factory was responsible for an injury resulting from an accident
   of this kind, and altho he believed that the man was shamming,
   and that the whole case was an attempt at swindling, he had
   about made up his mind that he would be compelled to pay the
   claim. The day of the trial arrived, and in open court an
   eminent occulist retained by the defense examined the alleged
   injured member, and gave it as his opinion that it was as good
   as the right eye. Upon the plaintiff’s loud protest of his
   inability to see with his left eye, the occulist proved him a
   perjurer, and satisfied the court and jury of the falsity of his
   claim. And how do you suppose he did it? Why, simply by knowing
   that the colors green and red combined made black. He prepared
   a black card on which a few words were written with green ink.
   Then the plaintiff was ordered to put on a pair of spectacles
   with two different glasses, the one for the right eye being red
   and the one for the left eye consisting of ordinary glass. Then
   the card was handed him and he was ordered to read the writing
   on it. This he did without hesitation, and the cheat was at once
   exposed. The sound right eye, fitted with the red glass, was
   unable to distinguish the green writing on the black surface of
   the card, while the left eye, which he pretended was sightless,
   was the one with which the reading had to be done.--_Pottery
   Gazette._

    (1780)


   =Liberality=--See GENEROSITY.


                        LIBERALITY IN RELIGION

   Father Mathew was going among a large number of his temperance
   converts, signing the cross on their foreheads, when a man on
   his knees looked up and said, “Father, here am I, an Orangeman,
   kneeling to you, and you blessing me.” “God bless you, my dear,
   I didn’t care if you were a lemon-man,” said Father Mathew.

    (1781)


   =Liberty=--See FREEDOM CHOSEN.


   =Liberty, A Spider’s Struggle for=--See INGENUITY.


                          LIBERTY, INDIVIDUAL

   Throughout his life Milton, tho profoundly religious, held aloof
   from the strife of sects. In belief, he belonged to the extreme
   Puritans, called Separatists, Independents, Congregationalists,
   of which our Pilgrim Fathers are the great examples; but he
   refused to be bound by any creed or Church discipline:

    “As ever in my great Task-Master’s eye.”

   In this last line of one of his sonnets is found Milton’s
   rejection of every form of outward religious authority in face
   of the supreme Puritan principle, the liberty of the individual
   soul before God.--WILLIAM J. LONG, “English Literature.”

    (1782)


   =Liberty, Promoting=--See EMANCIPATION.


                          LIBERTY, SPIRITUAL

   Madam Guyon, in the Bastile, speaks to us still of patience in
   suffering. The walls of her prison were nine feet thick and a
   narrow slit through the massive masonry admitted all the light
   that ever reached her. The cell was narrow and dirty with the
   mold of ages. Dreary and cold in winter and suffocating in
   summer. No privileges, no books, no recreations or employments.
   But here was born that blithe bird-song of her captivity:

    “My cage confines me round:
      Abroad I can not fly;
    But tho my wings are closely bound,
      My heart’s at liberty.
    My prison walls can not control
      The flight, the freedom of the soul.
    And in God’s mighty will I find
    The joy, the freedom of the mind.” (Text.)

    (1783)


                          LIBERTY SYMBOLIZED

   The other day I came down the East River on the steamer. I saw
   the Bartholdi statue, and my only comment on it, in voice or in
   thought, was upon its dingy appearance. I wondered that it had
   not been cleaned. When I sat in my house reading afterward, I
   came to an account of the ecstasy of an immigrant when first he
   saw the statue. It was to him the incarnation of all that he
   had hoped for. Its torch seemed to light his feet to the ways
   of peace and prosperity. It seemed to be calling a welcome from
   this land that is free. It seemed even to his devoted heart to
   be like the figure of the Christ beckoning him and promising him
   the liberty of a child of God. I wish it might be that we could
   never see it without similar emotion.--C. B. MCAFEE.

    (1784)


   =Liberty, Workers for=--See EMANCIPATION.


                           LIES IN BUSINESS

   You, merchants, must not twine lies and sagacity with your
   threads in weaving, for every lie that is told in business is
   a rotten thread in the fabric, and tho it may look well when
   it first comes out of the loom, there will always be a hole
   there, first or last, when you come to wear it.--HENRY WARD
   BEECHER.

    (1785)


                                 LIFE

A lady occupied a whole year in searching for and fitting the following
lines from English and American poets. The whole reads almost as if
written at one time and by one author:

    Why all this toil for triumphs of an hour?

                                     --_Young_

    Life’s a short summer--man is but a flower;

                                --_Dr. Johnson_

    By turns we catch the fatal breath and die

                                      --_Pope_

    The cradle and the tomb, alas! so nigh!

                                  --_Prior_

    To be is better far than not to be,

                             --_Sewell_

    Tho all man’s life may seem a tragedy;

                               --_Spencer_

    But light cares speak when mighty griefs are dumb--

                                             --_Daniel_

    The bottom is but shallow whence they come.

                                    --_Raleigh_

    Your fate is but the common fate of all,

                              --_Longfellow_

    Unmingled joys here to no man befall;

                            --_Southwell_

    Nature to each allots his proper sphere.

                                --_Congreve_

    Fortune makes folly her peculiar care.

                             --_Churchill_

    Custom does often reason overrule

                        --_Rochester_

    And throw a cruel sunshine on a fool;

                            --_Armstrong_

    Live well--how long or short permit to heaven,

                                        --_Milton_

    They who forgive most shall be most forgiven.

                                       --_Bailey_

    Sin may be clasped so close we can not see its face;

                                              --_French_

    Vile intercourse where virtue has no place.

                                 --_Somerville_

    Then keep each passion down, however dear,

                                  --_Thompson_

    Thou pendulum betwixt a smile and tear:

                                  --_Byron_

    Her sensual snares let faithless pleasures lay,

                                       --_Smollett_

    With craft and skill to ruin and betray.

                                  --_Crabbe_

    Soar not too high to fall, but stoop to rise;

                                    --_Massinger_

    We masters grow of all that we despise.

                                --_Crowley_

    Oh, then, renounce that impious self-esteem.

                                     --_Beattie_

    Riches have wings, and grandeur is a dream.

                                     --_Cowper_

    Think not ambition wise because ’tis brave--

                                    --_Davenant_

    The paths of glory lead but to the grave.

                                     --_Gray_

    What is ambition? ’Tis a glorious cheat.

                                  --_Willis_

    Only destructive to the brave and great.

                                 --_Addison_

    What’s all the gaudy glitter of a crown?

                                  --_Dryden_

    The way to bliss lies not on beds of down.

                                   --_Quarles_

    How long we live, not years but actions tell.

                                      --_Watkins_

    That man lives twice, who lives the first life well.

                                             --_Herrick_


    Make, then, while yet ye may, your God your friend.

                                              --_Mason_

    Whom Christians worship, yet not comprehend.

                                        --_Hill_

    The trust that’s given guard, and to yourself be just.

                                                  --_Dana_

    For live howe’er we may, yet die we must.

                              --_Shakespeare_

                        --_Good Housekeeping._

    (1786)

       *       *       *       *       *

   As I passed down through India I saw two little rice-fields side
   by side. One was green and growing; the other was dead and dry.
   I looked for the cause. The great lake was full of water. There
   was no lack there. Into the one the living water was flowing,
   for the channel was open. The other was choked. Brother, is your
   life green and growing, fruitful and joyful, or barren and dry
   because the channel is choked?--G. S. EDDY, “Student
   Volunteer Movement for Foreign Missions,” 1910.

    (1787)


                             LIFE A CYCLE

   An old man who was just one hundred and three years of age,
   recently died in Chester, England. Not long before his death
   he tried to get out of bed, and they said to him: “Father,
   where do you want to go? What do you want to do?” He answered,
   “Father is calling me to breakfast.” He repeated it two or three
   times--“Father is calling me to breakfast.” The old man had
   become a child again. He was in his little trundle-bed again
   hearing his father’s voice up the stairway calling him to come
   to breakfast.

So when we have traveled around the circle of life, we get into the
childhood of our old age, and hear the voices of the friends of our
youth, which is one of the evidences of the belief that we shall hear
those voices again. We would not thus recall them nor remember them if
we were not to hear them again.

    (1788)


                            LIFE, A DEVOTED

   Florence Nightingale, heroine of the Crimean War Nursing
   Service, as a child at Lea Hurst, was accustomed to minister
   to the sick poor, and it so happened that the clergyman of
   the parish was a man of considerable medical skill. Curiously
   enough, it was an animal that first turned her thoughts to
   nursing--the dog of her father’s shepherd. Poor Cap’s leg was
   thought to have been broken and he was about to be destroyed,
   when the girl, under the clergyman’s direction, prepared a
   simple hot compress and soon had the delight of seeing her
   patient convalescent. The fame of this exploit spread abroad,
   and many an animal was brought to her to be healed; perhaps
   that was why she always advocated that sick people should
   have dumb pets about them if possible. As she grew older, the
   little girl who had instinctively bandaged her broken dolls
   in the most professional manner was allowed to attend to the
   wounds and ailments of real people, and this at a time when
   ambulance classes were unheard of, and when the only sick nurses
   available were ignorant and untrained women. Miss Florence did
   not find the ordinary life of a girl in society appealed to
   her. With characteristic decision she gave it up and spent the
   next few years in visiting hospitals in England, Ireland and
   Scotland. It is easy to see now that the great want of those
   days was trained women nurses, but it required exceptional
   intelligence--indeed, we might almost say, a touch of genius, to
   see it then in the late forties. The question was how to supply
   the need; characteristically again, Miss Nightingale began with
   herself. In 1851 she entered the Society of Sisters of Mercy, a
   Protestant institution at Kaiserverth on the Rhine, for training
   deaconesses or nursing sisters. Here she thoroughly qualified
   herself as a nurse, and on her return to London she devoted much
   time and money to the Governesses’ Sanatorium in Harley Street.

   The autumn of 1854 saw the beginning of the enterprise for
   which all this time she had been unconsciously preparing
   herself. The country was being horrified by the tidings which
   continually came home of the appalling mismanagement of the
   military hospitals in the Crimea. Our gallant soldiers were
   dying by hundreds for lack of the simplest and most elementary
   nursing. It seemed, as religious people say, a clear “call”
   to this country squire’s daughter, and that very evening she
   wrote to Mr. Sidney Herbert (afterward Lord Herbert of Lea),
   the Secretary at War, and sketched her plan. At the very same
   time Mr. Herbert himself was writing to her to ask if she would
   organize and take out a company of nurses and the two letters
   crossed in the post. In October, 1854, Miss Nightingale started
   for the East with thirty-eight nurses in her command, some of
   whom were naturally nuns. The day after her arrival came the
   wounded from Balaklava, quickly followed by six hundred wounded
   from Inkerman and in a few months she had ten thousand poor
   fellows under her care. She did much more than organize; she
   would traverse at night, her little lamp in her hand, the four
   miles of crowded hospital wards and Longfellow’s famous lines
   are no poetic fiction, many a dying man turned to kiss her
   shadow as it fell.

   Miss Florence Nightingale was the first woman to receive the
   Order of Merit, the coveted distinction formerly reserved
   exclusively for men. She received the freedom of the City of
   London in 1908 and was a Lady of Grace of the Order of St. John
   of Jerusalem.--Belfast (Ireland) _Telegram_.

    (1789)


                             LIFE, A NOBLE

   I have seen at midnight the gleaming headlight of a giant
   locomotive, rushing onward through the darkness, heedless
   of danger and uncertainty, and I have thought the spectacle
   grand. I have seen the light come over the eastern hills in
   glory, driving the lazy darkness, like mist before a sea-born
   gale, till leaf and tree and blade of grass sparkled as myriad
   diamonds in the morning rays, and I have thought that it was
   grand. I have seen the lightning leap at midnight athwart the
   storm-swept sky, shivering over chaotic clouds, ’mid howling
   winds, till cloud and darkness and the shadow-haunted earth
   flashed into midday splendor, and I have known that it was
   grand. But the grandest thing, next to the radiance that
   flows from the Almighty’s throne, is the light of a noble
   and beautiful life, shining in benediction upon the destines
   of men, and finding its home in the bosom of the everlasting
   God.--JOHN TEMPLE GRAVES.

    (1790)


                              LIFE A TREE

   A Scandinavian allegory represents human life as a tree, the
   “Igdrasil,” or the tree of existence, whose roots grow deep down
   in the soil of mystery; the trunk reaches above the clouds; its
   branches spread out over the globe. At the foot of it sit the
   Past, the Present and the Future, watering the roots. Its boughs
   spread out through all lands and all time; every leaf of the
   tree is a biography, every fiber a word, a thought or a deed;
   its boughs are the histories of nations; the rustle of it is the
   noise of human existence onward from of old; it grows amid the
   howling of the hurricane; it is the great tree of humanity.

    (1791)


                             LIFE A VOYAGE

    Into this world we come like ships,
    Launched from the docks and stocks and slips,
      For fortune fair or fatal.
                                   --THOMAS HOOD.

   O Neptune! You may save me if you will; you may sink me if you
   will; but whatever happens I shall keep my rudder true.
                                              --SENECA’S “Pilot.”

    Lowly faithful, banish fear,
      Right onward sail unharmed;
    The port, well worth the voyage, is near,
      And every wave is charmed.
                             --R. W. EMERSON.

   Thou hast embarked; thou hast made the voyage; thou art come to
   shore; now land! (Text.)
                                                --MARCUS AURELIUS.

    (1792)


   =Life and Faith United=--See RELIGION ALLAYING FEAR.


                         LIFE, APPRECIATION OF

Many who carelessly declare this life to be of no desirable value
discover how strongly they hold to it if by chance they seem in danger
of losing it. Thus Rev. Asa Bullard writes:

   My father had a blacksmith-shop; and sometimes when not called
   away on professional duties, he would do little jobs in his shop
   in the evening. One evening, when I was a little boy, I asked
   him to let me go with him and see him make nails.

   He said I would get sleepy and cry to come back. I thought I
   shouldn’t; and so was permitted to go with him. He fixt me a
   nice seat on the forge, where I could see him blow the bellows,
   heat the nail-rod red hot, and then hammer out the nails. It was
   real fun to watch him for some time.

   By and by I began to grow tired and sleepy; and then I wished
   I was back at the house and in bed; but I did not dare to say
   anything about it. At length father looked up, and seeing that I
   was very sleepy and ready to cry, he asked:

   “What is the matter, Asa?”

   I said: “I wish I was never made!”

   Father drew the hot nail-rod out of the fire and raised it as
   tho he was going to strike me, when I exclaimed:

   “I don’t want to be killed, now I am made!” Then, with a hearty
   laugh, he took me home to mother.--“Incidents in a Busy Life.”

    (1793)


   =Life as Testimony=--See NATIVE CONVERTS.


   =Life, Brevity of=--See BREVITY OF LIFE.


                              LIFE CHEAP

Mard Bird, in “Persian Women and Their Creed,” tells the following:

   A Persian Haji’s baby had convulsions and the parents brought
   it to the Mohammedan village teacher, who said the child was
   possest, and the only remedy for her disease was for them to buy
   a prayer of the exact length of the child, and strap it on her
   back. The child was so long that the cost of the prayer was five
   dollars, and the parents decided that a girl baby was not worth
   that much and took her home to die.

    (1794)


                           LIFE, CLINGING TO

   They used to tell during the Civil War of a colonel who was
   ordered to assault a position which his regiment, when they
   had advanced far enough to get a good look at it, saw to be so
   impossible that they fell back and became immovable. Whereupon
   (so the story ran) the colonel, who took the same sense of the
   situation that his command did, yet must do his duty, called out
   in an ostensibly pleading and fervid voice: “Oh, don’t give it
   up so! Forward again! Forward! Charge! Great heavens, men, do
   you want to live forever?”--JOSEPH H. TWICHELL.

    (1795)


                            LIFE, CONTINUED

   A few years ago I was walking along the shore of the Susquehanna
   River, in Harrisburg, Pa., accompanied by the little boy of my
   friend, Dr. Hill. Night was fast closing down over the earth,
   when the little fellow looked up and said: “Brother Shannon,
   where does the river go to, when the night comes on?” I saw at
   once that the question was big with the wonder and mystery of a
   child’s mind. He had just come from his own home; he saw men and
   women going home; he saw the birds flying to their homes in the
   trees, and he wondered if the river had a home, too. Of course,
   I could have answered that the river has its home in the sea,
   but I said: “My child, the river flows on just the same through
   the night as through the day.” And men say: “Where does the
   soul go to when the night of death comes on?” The Master says:
   “It goes on just the same, thrilled with my joy, united with my
   destiny, and deathless in my life!”--F. F. SHANNON.

    (1796)


                         LIFE, DESIRE FOR LONG

   The enchanters of China promised the emperors of that country to
   find an elixir of long life that should efface the irreparable
   inroad of years. The astrologers and necromancers of the Middle
   Ages flattered themselves to have discovered the fountain of
   youth, in which a person had merely to bathe in order to recover
   his youth. All such dreams were long ago dispelled by the
   progress of science. Yet, in the heart of most men, there is
   such a desire to prolong their stay upon the earth that the art
   of living for a long time has not ceased to impassion a large
   number of persons who would be willing to endure all the evils
   of an indefinitely prolonged old age. We have several times had
   proof of this mania, which Dean Swift has so wittily stigmatized
   in his second voyage of Gulliver by showing in what a state of
   abjection the mortals of Laputa lived--those unfortunates who
   were condemned to survive their own selves through the loss of
   memory of what they had been. One of the perpetual secretaries
   of the Academy of Sciences has written a volume to prove that
   man should consider himself young up to eighty years of age. A
   noble Venetian named Cornaro spent twenty years in a scale-pan
   in order to ascertain what alimentary regimen was best adapted
   to him. We have known old men who, having learned that Mr.
   Chevreul had never drank anything but water, took the resolution
   to abstain wholly from wine, hoping in this way to exceed a
   hundred years. Fortunately, a rag-gatherer, who had reached
   the same age as the celebrated academician, spared them this
   sacrifice, by informing his confrére in longevity that he had
   never drank anything but wine.--_La Science Illustrée._

    (1797)


   =Life, Fecundity of=--See PROPAGATION, PROLIFIC.


                           LIFE, FEEDING THE

   The Mississippi River, which empties its wealth of waters into
   the Gulf of Mexico, is fed by the Missouri, the Ohio, the
   Tennessee, the Red River, and indirectly the Allegheny and
   Monongahela, and the Yellowstone and the Platte. The Amazon
   River drains an area of two and a half million square miles,
   or the waters of more than a third of all the South American
   continent. The River Nile is almost equally enriched by
   tributaries.

But no river is more fed by confluent currents than is that of a life
which draws to itself all resources of knowledge and grace. (Text.)

    (1798)


                            LIFE FROM DEATH

Clinton Scollard, in _The Outlook_, draws a lesson from the new-fallen
snow:

    The evanescent wonder of the snow
    Is round about us, and as in a cloud--
    A vestiture inviolate--we walk.
    Earth seems bereft of song and shorn of sun,
    A cloistral world. Even the lyric throat
    Of the rapt brook is like a pulse-beat faint.
    The wood--white architrave on architrave--
    Is as a temple where the lips of prayer
    Tremble upon the verge of utterance.
    Hush! In the heart of this great gulf of sleep,
    This void abysmal, may we not divine
    The inscrutable Presence clothed about with dreams,
    The immaculate Vision that is death yet life,
    For out of death comes life: the twain are one! (Text.)

    (1799)


   =Life, Inward=--See CHARACTER MORE THAN CLOTHING.


                        LIFE LEARNED FROM DEATH

Prof. G. Currie Martin draws this suggestive picture:

   In the gallery at The Hague there hangs a wonderful picture by
   Rembrandt. When the visitor first looks at it the horror that
   it inspires seems too great to be borne, for there, in the very
   forefront of the canvas, so that the spectator imagines he could
   touch it, is the grim and ghastly form of a corpse lying livid
   and rigid upon the dissecting-table. To add still further to the
   sense of shrinking it evokes, the scalpel of the surgeon has
   been thrust into the flesh, and he is laying bare the muscles of
   the arm. But if the visitor has only patience and courage for a
   moment to overcome the first sense of repulsion, he will find
   that he goes away from an examination of the picture thinking
   no longer of death and its terror, but of life and its power.
   For the skill of the artist is shown in so presenting the great
   and eternal contrast between death and life that the latter
   triumphs. Above the figure of the corpse are grouped the faces
   of the great scientists and physicians who, as they listen
   to the words of the lecturer, are drinking in the new-found
   knowledge that is to make them the conquerors of disease, and
   those portraits are so wonderfully painted that the spectator
   finds himself ever afterward thinking of the power of life that
   they manifest and of the greatness of human knowledge that has
   wrested the secrets from death itself which make life more
   powerful and safe. (Text.)

    (1800)


   =Life-line, A=--See INGENUITY.


                            LIFE-LINE HYMN

   A speaker at one of Evan Roberts’ remarkable revival services
   in Wales, was telling of a “vision” he had had, and of a voice
   which exhorted him to “Throw out the life-line,” when instantly
   the listeners sang the whole hymn together.

   Mr. Ufford, the author of the lines, once sang them at a
   watch-service in California, and there he told how the _Elsie
   Smith_ was lost on Cape Cod in 1902, showing the very
   life-line that saved sixteen lives from the sea, and by chance
   one of the number was present at the service.

   From a room, in a building hired for religious services in
   a Pennsylvania city, and where a series of revival meetings
   was being held, rang out, one night, the hymn, “Throw out
   the life-line,” in the hearing, next door, of a convivial
   card-party. It was a sweet female voice, followed in the
   chorus by other and louder voices chiming in. The result was
   the merriment ceased as one of the members of the card-party
   remarked: “If what they’re saying is right, then we’re wrong,”
   and the revelers broke up. An ex-member of that party is now an
   editor of a great city daily, and his fellows are all filling
   positions of responsibility. The life-line pulled them ashore.

   In a Massachusetts city, twenty years ago, this hymn won to
   Christ a man who is now a prosperous manufacturer.

   At a special service held at Gibraltar for the survivors of an
   emigrant ship that went ashore there during a storm, this hymn
   was sung with telling effect.

   The story of that life-line is long enough and strong enough to
   tie up a large bundle of results wrought by it.

    (1801)


   =Life-material=--See MATERIAL FOR A GREAT LIFE.


                          LIFE, NEW, FROM GOD

   In London there dwells a man interested in rare and exotic
   plants. A friend who had been in the Amazon brought him home a
   rare tree. In the winter he keeps it in the hothouse, but when
   summer comes, he carries it into his garden. So beautiful is
   the bloom that he gave garden-parties that men might behold the
   wondrous flower. One summer’s day he noticed a strange thing
   that set his pulses throbbing--a singular fruit had begun to
   set. Sending for an expert, they took counsel together. They
   knew that this was the only tree of the kind in Paris, and they
   could not understand from whence had come the pollen that had
   fertilized the plant. At length they published the story in the
   papers, and that story brought the explanation. A merchant wrote
   that years before he had brought to Marseilles a young plant
   from the Amazon. The pollen of that tree nearly four hundred
   miles away had been carried on the wings of the wind over hill
   and vale, and found out the blossom that awaited its coming.

   And not otherwise is it with the soul. Because it is in His
   likeness, it shares with Him in those attributes named reason,
   wisdom, goodness, holiness and love. The soul waits. Without God
   it can do nothing. Its life is from afar. Expectant and full
   of longing, it hungers and thirsts, and desires His coming.
   That repentant youth, lying in the desert, with a stone for his
   pillow, waits, and then the light comes from God.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1802)


                            LIFE, ORIGIN OF

   The old philosophers who held that all things originated in the
   sea were not far out of the way, if we are to believe some of
   the latest biological theories or speculations. That organic
   evolution began with marine creatures, Haeckel told us long ago.
   That sea-water is a particularly sympathetic medium for vital
   processes, has more lately been shown by Loeb in his experiments
   on the fertilization of the eggs of certain marine creatures. M.
   René Quinton, of the Laboratory of Pathologic Physiology of the
   College de France, has published a book, entitled “Sea-water as
   an Organic Medium,” in which he asserts that as the cell itself
   has persisted in living organisms, being practically the same in
   the human body as in our earliest marine predecessors, so the
   conditions of its life closely reproduce those of primordial
   times. The cell in our own bodies is bathed in a fluid that
   closely resembles sea-water in chemical composition and that
   approximates in temperature to that of the ocean when life first
   appeared in it. (Text.)

    (1803)


                           LIFE, PASSION FOR

   Ponce de Leon searched Florida for the spring of the elixir of
   life; thousands of alchemists have attempted to concoct it;
   innumerable patent medicines in every drugstore testify to the
   universal effort to prolong earthly existence; a miser will
   fling away his last piece of gold to save his life; lawyers will
   battle to the last device of law to save a client from execution
   if only to prolong his existence in a prison; and tho Bacon
   says “there is no passion so mean as that it can not mate and
   master the fear of death,” he was speaking only of sudden and
   occasional passions. The rule is that passion to live outmasters
   all other passions.

What a word then is this of Jesus when He says, “I came that they might
have life.”

    (1804)


                         LIFE, PERSISTENCE OF

   A spring of air never loses its elasticity; but it never gains
   an energy which it had not at first. Tho prest a thousand
   years under incumbent weights, the instant they are removed it
   reassumes its original volume; but it gathers no more from the
   long repose. But the life in the seed tends constantly toward
   development, into the stalk, the blossom and the fruit. As long
   as the seed remains perfect and vital, this tendency remains,
   inhering in it; so that three thousand years after it was
   shaken from the wheat-ear on the Nile, if planted it develops
   and brings forth fruit in English gardens.--RICHARD S.
   STORRS.

    (1805)


   =Life Pictures=--See REALISM.


                            LIFE PROLONGED

   “In the city of New York alone there are 150,000 people living
   to-day who would be dead if the mortality of fifty years
   ago still prevailed,” says a writer in _The Booklover’s
   Magazine_. “Popular opinion has scarcely yet come to realize
   what medical science has been doing in late years. People sicken
   and die, think the laity, and the efforts of the physician are
   just as futile as before the recent discoveries about which so
   much is said. This idea is, however, erroneous. I will venture
   to say there is scarcely an adult living to-day who has not
   experienced or will not experience an actual prolongation of
   life due to discoveries of the last fifty years.”

    (1806)


                             LIFE PURPOSE

   A story is told of Rubens that during his sojourn as ambassador
   to the Court of Philip in Spain, he was detected at work upon
   a painting by a courtier, who, not knowing much about his true
   fame, exclaimed in surprize, “What! does an ambassador to his
   Catholic Majesty amuse himself with painting pictures?” “No,”
   replied Rubens, “the painter sometimes amuses himself with
   diplomacy.”

The serious business of life is the producing of a good character; all
else is pastime. (Text.)

    (1807)

       *       *       *       *       *

These noble ambitions for a true life are put in verse by H. H. Barston:

    To face each day of life
      Nor flinch from any task;
    To front the moment’s strife
      And only courage ask.
    To be a man unawed
      By aught but heaven’s command;
    Tho men revile or plaud,
      To take a stand--and stand.

    To fill my life with toil,
      With God’s free air and light;
    To shun the things that spoil,
      That hasten age and night;
    To sweat beneath my hod,
      Nor ask a better gift
    From self or man or God
      Than will and strength to lift.

    To keep my spirit sweet
      Tho head and hand be tired;
    Each brother man to greet,
      Nor leave him uninspired;
    To keep my spirit fed
      On God unceasingly,
    That none may lack his bread
      Who walk this way with me. (Text.)

    (1808)


                           LIFE RECRUDESCENT

Edith M. Thomas is the author of the lines below, found in the
_Canadian Presbyterian_:

                The apple-tree said,
                “You think I’m dead,”
    “Because I have never a leaf to show,
                Because I stoop,
                And my branches droop,
    And the dull, gray mosses over me grow;
    But I’m alive in trunk and shoot,
                The buds of next May
                I fold away,
    But I pity the withered grass at my root.”

                “You think I’m dead,”
                The quick grass said,
    “Because I have parted with stem and blade,
                But under the ground
                I’m safe and sound,
    With the snow’s thick blanket over me laid.
    I’m all alive and ready to shoot
                Should the spring of the year
                Come dancing here,
    But I pity the flower without branch or root.”

                “You think I’m dead,”
                A soft voice said,
    “Because not a branch or root I own.
                I never have died
                But close I hide
    In a plump seed that the wind has sown,
    Patient I wait through the long winter hours.
                You will see me again,
                I shall laugh at you then
    Out of the eyes of a hundred flowers.”

    (1809)


                           LIFE, RESPONSE OF

The touch of God upon men is not answered unless the soul be
spiritually alive:

   The sun shines down upon the dead twig that has fallen from the
   tree. All his rich and marvelous powers are exerted. He wraps
   it about with his mighty arms. He kisses it and bathes it in
   tides of summer warmth, and smiles upon it and beckons it to
   come--but it lies there a dead twig to the last. But a vine
   has peeped through the soil. The sun discovers it and whispers
   the secrets of the sky to its tiny quivering leaves, and out
   go the filmy tendrils, and up and up goes the loving plant,
   climbing the golden trellis of the sunbeam toward its lover, the
   sun.--JOHN K. WILLEY.

    (1810)


                              LIFE-SAVING

Every man should try to be as alert and well prepared for helping and
saving men as the steamers here described:

   All Pacific mail-steamers are carefully protected by a rigid
   practise in fire and life-saving drills. At the tap of the bell,
   the crew spring to their places by boat and raft; each officer,
   with a pistol hung by his side, takes his station; and the
   precision and quickness with which it is all accompanied inspire
   the beholder with very comfortable feelings.

   The life-drill is practised in case some one should fall
   overboard. Certain members of the crew are assigned to this
   duty, ready at any moment to throw out life-lines, buoys
   that strike a light when they hit the water, or man the
   emergency lifeboat that is kept in position to be lowered
   instantly.--MARSHALL P. WILDER, “Smiling ’Round the
   World.”

    (1811)

   See KNOWLEDGE APPLIED.


   =Life-saving Attachment=--See ECONOMY OF ENERGY.


                        LIFE-SAVING BY WIRELESS

   The former sound liner _Kentucky_ is at the bottom of
   the Atlantic at lat. 32.10, long. 76.30, which is more than
   a hundred miles off the South Carolina coast, south of Cape
   Hatteras. Her captain and crew of forty-six men are on their way
   to Key West on board the Mallory liner _Alamo_. It was the
   fourth rescue by wireless since that method of communication
   at sea has been in use. Called by the international distress
   signal, the _Alamo_ reached the sinking vessel just as the
   electricity died and but an hour before she sank.

   In the meantime her distress calls, heard throughout Atlantic
   coast waters and sent by W. G. Maginnis, wireless operator,
   had started speeding toward her the United States Government
   battleship _Louisiana_, on a speed trial in the vicinity, the
   cruiser _Birmingham_ and the revenue cutters _Yamacraw_ and
   _Seminole_.

   When 150 miles off Sandy Hook, at the very outset of her long
   journey, she sprang a leak. By working hard at the pumps Captain
   Moore managed to get her into Newport News with sixteen inches
   of water in her hold. She was repaired and certified safe and
   sound by the United States inspector there and Lloyds. Luckily,
   this little wooden ship, packed tight with coal, had been
   installed with wireless before she left. The international
   distress call, S. O. S., set the sound waves jumping all over
   the coast and the Atlantic. The United States Government
   received the message at the same time that every sea-captain on
   the ocean got it. The _Alamo_, bound for Key West, got it at
   11:30 and headed dead for the source at once. Later this came
   through the air:

   “We are sinking. Our lat. is 32 deg. 10 min.; long., 76 deg. 30
   min.

                                                “KENTUCKY.”

   The _Alamo_ was sixty-five miles off. She had made the run by
   3:50 o’clock, when the _Kentucky_ appeared in sight.

   The boat was sinking rapidly and in half a gale the work
   of transferring the crew of the _Kentucky_ by lifeboat
   was accomplished. As the last man was taken off only the
   superstructure was visible above the water.

    (1812)


                        LIFE, SELF-PROPAGATING

   The yeast-plant is so small that it can be seen only under the
   microscope. Each yeast-plant consists of a closed sack or cell,
   containing a jelly-like liquid named “protoplasm.” Under the
   microscope the yeast-plant is seen to change in form. Sometimes
   little swellings grow out, like knobs on a potato, and these
   will by and by separate themselves from the parent and become
   other yeast-plants. It is alive and growing.

“What we need,” said McLeod, “is not life, (from galvanism), but the
life of life”--Jesus himself. (Text.)

    (1813)


                         LIFE, SOURCE OF MAN’S

   The goddess of the Greek mythology springs from the crest of the
   curling sea. The spirit of poetic and legendary lore is born
   of moonbeams playing upon fountains. The glittering elf of the
   household story leaps up on the shaft of the quivering flame.
   The meteor is invoked, or the morning-star, to give birth to
   new spirits; the sunset-sheen on distant hills is imagined to
   become incorporate in them; or the west wind, toying over banks
   of flowers, to drop their delicate life from its wings. But when
   God forms the life, in each conscious soul, and fills this with
   its strange and unsearchable powers, he creates it by a ministry
   diverse from all these, and as distantly removed as it is
   possible to conceive from its own unique nature, and its height
   of prerogative. He creates it by the ministry of these fleshly
   forms, which are authors, under Him, of a life that transcends
   them; a life not limited as they are by space, not subject as
   they are to material assaults, and not dependent as they are on
   shelter or on food.--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (1814)


                            LIFE, SPENDING

A good life is never lost. It yields cumulative results. This rime
expresses the truth:

    A life spent with a purpose grand
      Has simply not been “spent”;
    It’s really an investment, and
      Will yield a large per cent. (Text.)

    (1815)


                           LIFE, THE SIMPLE

   Washington loved the simple life of home and countryside, of
   friend and neighbor, of master and servant. “To make and sell a
   little flour annually,” he wrote, “to repair houses going fast
   to ruin, to build one for the security of my papers of a public
   nature, will constitute employment for the few years I have to
   remain on this terrestrial globe.” But he was still ready for
   the summons of duty, whether it was to put his shoulder to the
   wheel of a stranger’s broken-down carriage on the roadside, to
   serve on the petty jury of his country, or to accept command of
   the army preparing to meet the French. Washington would never
   have identified effective citizenship with prominence. The
   citizen who was never mentioned in the news-letters might be
   quite as great as the general and President. At Ipswich, Mass.,
   on one occasion, Mr. Cleaveland, the minister of the town, was
   presented to him. As he approached, hat in hand, Washington
   said, “Put on your hat, parson, and I will shake hands with
   you.” “I can not wear my hat in your presence, general,” said
   the minister, “when I think of what you have done for this
   country.” “You did as much as I,” said Washington. “No, no,”
   protested the parson. “Yes,” said Washington, “you did what
   you could, and I have done no more.”--A. MACCOLL,
   _Northwestern Christian Advocate_.

    (1816)


   =Life, The Whole, the Test of Character=--See CHARACTER, UNSEEN
      PLACES IN.


                           LIFE, THE WINGED

   The story is told of how the birds received their wings. Created
   originally without wings, they hopped about, until one day
   God said to them: “You are beautiful and hop finely and sing
   sweetly, but I want you to fly. Let me give you wings.” At first
   they refused, saying that wings would be weights. Besides, they
   liked to hop. But at length they consented to receive wings and
   flew.

    (1817)


                             LIFE, USES OF

   In this world we have but brief glimpses of the best and
   brightest things. Sunset splendors linger but a little while;
   spring blossoms are scattered by the winds while we watch their
   unfolding; and autumn leaves soon fade and fall and dissolve
   into forest mold; the dull landscape glows for a time with
   supernal splendor, giving us a foretaste of the glory that
   shall be revealed; the wind passes over it and it is gone. For
   the leaves there are other and higher uses than to enrobe the
   branches with autumnal tints. They live and die to serve God in
   the mysterious economy of life. It is so with human destiny;
   our noblest achievements seem to perish in a day, but no life
   of faithful service can be lost in the consummation of God’s
   plan.--_The Living Church._

    (1818)


                            LIFE AS AN ART

These verses are from a poem by John Kendrick Bangs in _The
Century_:

      He’d never heard of Phidias,
      He’d never heard of Byron;
      His tastes were not fastidious,
      His soul was not aspirin’:
    But he could tell you what the birds were whisp’ring in the trees,
    And he could find sweet music in the sounding of the seas,
      And he could joy in wintry snows,
        And summer’s sunny weather,
      And tell you all the names of those
        Who frolic in the heather.

      He nothing knew of sciences,
      Of art, or eke of letters;
      Nor of those strange appliances
      That fill the world with debtors:
    But happiness he knew right well; he knew from A to Z
    The art of filling life with song, and others’ souls with glee;
      And he could joy in day and night,
        Heart full of pure thanksgiving--
      I am not sure he was not right
        In using life for living.

    (1819)


                            LIFE, VALUE OF

   There is a suggestive and saddening passage in Miss Ellen
   Terry’s recent “Reminiscences.” The great actress was talking
   to Sir Henry Irving, her old comrade on the stage, as he lay
   ill. “Do you ever think, as I do sometimes, what have you got
   out of life?” asked Miss Terry. “What have I got out of it?”
   said Irving, stroking his chin and smiling slightly, “Let me
   see--well, a good cigar, a good glass of wine, good friends.”

And that summary satisfies many another. The pathetic futility of it
all! Material things vanish, and then what remains? Life should be more
rewarding than this. (Text.)

    (1820)


                         LIFE, VENERATION FOR

Powhatan Bouldin’s “Home Reminiscences” has a story which shows John
Randolph’s peculiar veneration for growing things. The incident is
related by a friend of Randolph’s nephew:

   When I was a boy I visited at Roanoke. The house was completely
   environed by trees and underwood, and seemed to be in a dense
   virgin forest. Mr. Randolph would not permit even a switch to be
   cut near the house.

   Without being aware of this, one day I committed a serious
   trespass. My friend Tudor and I were roving about, when I,
   perceiving a straight young hickory about an inch thick,
   felled it. Tudor said that his uncle would be very angry, so I
   immediately went and informed him what I had ignorantly done,
   and exprest my regret. Mr. Randolph took the stick and looked
   pensively at it as if commiserating its fate. Then, gazing at
   me, he said:

   “I would not have done this for fifty Spanish-milled dollars!”

   I had seventy-five cents and had entertained some idea of
   offering it, but when I heard about the fifty dollars I was
   afraid of insulting him by such meager compensation.

   “Did you want this for a cane?” asked Mr. Randolph. “No, sir.”
   “No, you are not old enough to need a cane. Did you want it
   for any particular purpose?” “No, sir. I only saw that it was
   a pretty stick and thought I’d cut it.” “We can be justified
   in taking animal life to furnish food or to remove a hurtful
   object. We can not be justified in taking even vegetable life
   without some useful object in view. Now, God Almighty planted
   this thing, and you have killed it without any adequate object.
   It would have grown into a large nut-tree and furnished food for
   many squirrels. I hope and believe you will never do so again.”
   “Never, sir, never!” I cried.

   He put the stick into a corner, and I escaped to Tudor. It was
   some time before I could cut a switch or fishing-rod without
   feeling I was doing some sort of violence to the vegetable
   kingdom.

    (1821)


   =Life versus Business=--See RELIGION VERSUS BUSINESS.


                          LIFE VERSUS CHURCH

The manner in which Wesley by his zeal was pushed outside of the Church
of England limits is told thus by the Rev. W. H. Fitchett:

   But these two features of that work--open-air preaching and
   the itinerant nature of his ministry--determined many things.
   They determined, for example, the general question of Wesley’s
   relation to ecclesiastical order. For that order he had been,
   and still was, a zealot; but he was slowly learning that
   there were things more precious, as well as more urgent, than
   mere ecclesiastical use and wont. England was mapped out,
   for example, into parishes; and were these faint lines of
   ecclesiastical boundaries, drawn by human hands and guarding
   fancied human rights, to arrest such a work as Wesley was
   beginning? They were like films of cobweb drawn across a track
   of an earthquake! And many an ecclesiastical cobweb of the
   same kind had to be brushed aside to make room for the new
   religious life beginning to stir in Great Britain.--W. H.
   FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (1822)


                             LIFE, WASTING

Henley’s brilliant epitaph on George Moreland sums up not only that
artist’s life, but no less the life of too many before and since:

   He coined himself into guineas, and so, like the reckless and
   passionate spendthrift he was, he flung away his genius and his
   life in handfuls, till nothing else was left him but the silence
   and the decency of death.

    (1823)


                            LIFE, WATER OF

   The _Scavatori_ from Naples, some years ago, dug up from
   among the ruins of Pompeii an urn of bronze filled with pure
   water, sweet to the taste and unaltered in quality. It had lost
   none of its pristine excellence after centuries of time.

Jesus described Himself as living water, and after two thousand years
this has lost none of its purity or strength.

    (1824)


                         LIFE WHAT WE MAKE IT

Life is what we make it. It varies in its prospect with the sort of
eyes that see it. A writer remarks on this, as he takes his walk over
the fields:

   The laborer is coming along the road with his lumbering wagon;
   or the shepherd is standing by the gate of the field; or the
   gamekeeper is out to see to his snares; and you say to the
   countryman, whichever you meet, how beautiful the country is
   when the red berries so thickly stud the hedge.

   “Beautiful enough,” he replies, “but it’s no pleasant sight for
   us poor folk; it means we shall have a hard winter.”

Because of this relation of the individual to the coloring of life, it
behooves each one to make his own world beautiful and he will do so
when his own life is in accord with truth. (Text.)

    (1825)


                         LIFE WORK, CHOOSING A

In a current book a college president tells this story:

   A traveler in Japan says that one day as he stood on the quay
   in Tokyo waiting for a steamer, he excited the attention of
   a coolie doing the work of a stevedore, who knew he was an
   American. As the coolie went by with his load, in his pigeon
   English he said, “Come buy cargo?” By which he meant, “Are you
   in Japan on business?” The man shook his head. The second time
   the coolie passed, he again asked, “Come look and see?” By
   which he meant to ask if the American were a tourist seeing the
   country. Receiving a negative reply, the next time he passed he
   tried one more question. “Spec’ die soon?” By which he meant to
   ask if the man was there for his health.

   This the writer used to describe three different classes of
   people in the world. There is the young man who seems to be in
   the world for his health. They want to be coddled. There is the
   young man who seems to be in the world as a traveler. He wants
   to be amused. There are the young men who are in the world for
   business. They mean to do something and be somebody.--N.
   MCGEE WATERS.

    (1826)


   =Life Yet to Be=--See FUTURE, THE.


   =Life’s Furrow=--See SYMBOL OF LIFE.


                             LIFE’S MELODY

   A great pipe-organ has one or two thousand pipes. Some are
   twenty feet long, and large enough for a man to stand in, others
   are no bigger or longer than a common lead-pencil; some are made
   of wood, some of zinc, some of lead; and every one is set to
   make its own peculiar note. No pipe ever makes any other note
   than its own. But the organist is not limited to one tune. He
   can play any tune he may wish simply by changing the order of
   the notes which he sounds.

   The laws of God’s world are fixt; but on that great organ He
   is master, and it obeys His will; and rest assured that He
   it is that is playing the melody of your life.--JAMES M.
   STIFLER, “The Fighting Saint.”

    (1827)


                          LIFE’S TURNING TIDE

    Does the tide ever turn in the land of the dead?
      Shall we stir at the kiss of the wave rolling back,
    And lift, like the sea-weed, the death-draggled head,
      And toss with life’s flood, like the tangles of wrack?

    We trust it is so; for the sea that God turns,
      And sends flooding back into river and bay--
    Is the sea more divine than the spirit that yearns?
      And we will not believe that life’s tide ebbs for aye.

    --JAMES BUCKHAM, _Frank Leslie’s_.

    (1828)


                          LIFTERS AND LEANERS

   A prosperous member of a church in Scotland had been besought
   often by his pastor to give to the work of evangelizing the poor
   in Glasgow, but would always reply: “Na, I need it for mysel’.”
   One night he dreamed that he was at the gate of heaven, which
   was only a few inches ajar. He tried to get in, but could not,
   and was in agony at his poor prospect. Just then the face of
   his minister appeared, who said: “Sandy, why stand ye glowering
   there? Why don’t ye gae in?” “I can’t; I am too large, and my
   pocketbook sticks out whichever way I turn.” “Sandy,” replied
   the minister, “think how mean ye have been to the Lord’s poor,
   and ye will be small enough to go through the eye of a needle.”
   Sandy awoke, and began to reduce both his pocketbook and his
   meanness by generously lifting forward the cause of his Lord.

We may depend upon it that it is the lifters and not the leaners
who have the joy, and the peace, and the triumph of the Christian
life.--LOUIS ALBERT BANKS.

    (1829)


                                 LIGHT

The traveler to the heavenly country will often set in contrast to the
conditions described below, the time and scene in which “they need no
candle, neither light of the sun, for the Lord God giveth them light”
and “the Lamb is the light thereof.”

   In any large city the small hours of the night, while most
   people are asleep, is the time when the bread is made and baked,
   the great newspapers printed, the food products, such as milk
   and vegetables, prepared and brought into the city. If we were
   obliged to dispense with our modern systems of illumination the
   world would be set back in its civilization beyond our power to
   imagine.

    (1830)

       *       *       *       *       *

Jesus stated long ago the philosophy of the paragraph below when He
said “Neither cometh to the light lest their evil deeds should be
reproved” and “men love darkness ... because their deeds are evil.”

   The municipality had better take the cue, less light, more
   crime, more light, less crime. There are still dark spots to
   be found at night within the city limits where a few powerful
   arcs would wield an immediate influence. It is easy to see that
   arc-lights are cheaper than police officers and a brightly lit
   city the greatest imaginable offset to criminality in any stage
   or form. (Text.)--_Electricity._

    (1831)

       *       *       *       *       *

An English writer has this to say about the phosphorescent light cast
by the sea-fish called the smelt:

   Anybody desirous of seeing the sort of light which it emits
   may do so very easily by purchasing an unwashed smelt from
   the fishmonger, and allowing it to dry with its natural slime
   upon it, then looking at it in the dark. A sole or almost any
   other fish will answer the purpose, but I name the smelt from
   having found it the most reliable in the course of my own
   experiments. It emits a dull, ghostly light, with very little
   penetrating power, which shows the shape of the fish, but casts
   no perceptible light on objects around.

Here the light is so dim that it gives no illumination beyond outlining
the fish. Many men are like that. They have a little light, but it
never shines beyond themselves. It merely outlines their own lives and
sometimes scarcely that. (Text.)

    (1832)

       *       *       *       *       *

   It has been a long stride forward from producing light and
   heat by means of flint to producing it by matches. What would
   civilization do without matches? Few realize the immense labor,
   capital and material used to produce this tiny article of
   commerce. As a matter of fact, thousands of men are employed,
   millions of dollars invested and vast forests cut down to meet
   the demand in America of 700,000,000,000 a year. One plant alone
   on the Pacific coast covers 240 acres and uses 200,000 feet of
   sugar-pine and yellow-pine logs in a day. The odds and ends will
   not do. A constant search is in progress for large forests of
   perfect trees to meet the future need.

   If such labor and pains are necessary to keep at hand the means
   of lighting that which at best is only a temporary flame,
   what should measure our diligence to keep our spiritual light
   burning? (Text.)

    (1833)

   See SHINING AS LAMPS.


                           LIGHT AFTER NIGHT

Mary Elliot interprets the moral cheer of recurring dawn in these
musical lines:

    Dawn of the red, red sun in a bleak, abandoned sky
      That the moon has lately left and the stars are fast forsaking--
    The day is drawing the cloudy lids from his bloodshot eye,
      And the world impatient stirs--a tired old sleeper, waking.

    O most unwearying prophet, ever-returning morn!
      Thou giv’st new life to a world grown old, and marred in making;
    With ever an old faith lost, and ever a pang new-born,
      But ever a new, new hope to hearts that were well-nigh breaking.
                                                                (Text.)

    --_The Metropolitan._

    (1834)


                          LIGHT AND ACTIVITY

Those who would glow with the brightness of a blest life can not so
shine unless they are luminous with activity.

   We are passing along a country road on a dark evening and are
   arrested by seeing luminous points in the herbage at the foot of
   a hedgerow or side of a lane. We find on investigation that the
   beautiful little lights are emitted by glowworms. At first sight
   these appear to be stationary, but we find by patient waiting
   and watching that the little creatures are slowly moving as they
   shine and that each glowworm ceases to emit its lovely gleam
   directly it stops moving. And in human life are not the bright
   lights of society, of the family, of the Church, those persons
   who are incessantly in action? The sluggard is too dull to
   shine; the energetic souls go sparkling on their way and charm
   as well as help. (Text.)

    (1835)


   =Light and Darkness=--See BLIND GUIDES.


                            LIGHT AS A CURE

   Dr. Hasselbach, of Copenhagen, has become convinced that the
   light treatment is effective in heart disease and affections of
   the nervous system. Dr. Hasselbach, after experimenting on his
   own perfectly normal organs, next experimented on two doctors.
   Both of these were complete invalids, one suffering from angina
   pectoris and the other from a nervous affection of the heart.
   This treatment, which lasted in one case for a month and in
   the others for six weeks, resulted in enabling both doctors to
   resume their practise. (Text.)

    (1836)


   =Light, Attraction of=--See SUICIDE PREVENTED.


                             LIGHT-BEARERS

   Natural science has shown that the transmission of light to our
   globe is dependent on the luminous atmosphere surrounding the
   sun; and that light existed originally independent of the sun,
   and consisted of the undulations of a luminiferous ether. The
   latest theory maintains that the body of the sun is simply an
   irritant, having the property of setting the undulations of this
   ether into motion, but wholly devoid of light in itself.

Such a luminous atmosphere is the environment of one’s life, and
capable of being made the means of constituting each man a luminary to
the world.

    (1837)

       *       *       *       *       *

Annie Winsor Allen is the author of this cheering verse:

    Bringers of hope to men,
      Bearers of light.
    Eager and radiant,
      Glad in the right,
    ’Tis from these souls aglow
    Man learns his path to know.
    They as they onward go
      Bear on the light.

    What tho they fight to lose,
      Facing the night!
    Morning will find them still
      Seeking the height.
    What tho this stress and strain
    Makes all their hopes seem vain!
    They through the bitter pain
      Bear on the light.

    Brothers of all that live,
      They aid us all.
    May our hearts, touched with fire,
      Leap to their call!
    Their voices, clear and strong,
    Ring like a rallying song,
    “Upward against the wrong!
      Bear on the light!”

    (1838)


                          LIGHT, BENEFITS OF

If we company with Him who said, “I am the light of the world,” our
moral natures will experience something corresponding to the physical
benefits of light when it is applied in moderation.

   Light acts as a stimulant to the bodies of men as well as of
   animals. The ability of the blood to carry through the system
   oxygen that is taken from the atmosphere during breathing is
   increased by exposure to light. The blood is assisted also, by
   the action of light on it, in giving off the carbonic-acid gas
   that the body has accumulated, and thus frees the system from
   the impurities out of the blood.

    (1839)


                           LIGHT, CHRISTIAN

   A lighthouse called the Pharos was built at Alexandria, Egypt.
   It ascended 550 feet in the air and sent its light over the sea
   for a distance of 100 miles. Its purpose was as a memorial to
   King Ptolemy.

   An upright character is a lighthouse to this storm-tossed world.
   (Text.)

    (1840)


                        LIGHT DEVELOPING BEAUTY

The human soul can only develop its full capacities when illumined.
Light from without must call out the latent powers of the mind.

   The sea-anemone is attractive only when light reaches them. In
   gloom or shadow they fold themselves up on their peduncles and
   look withered and repellent. In the sunshine that plays on the
   waters in their pools these strange creatures open out like
   blossoms expanding their petals. (Text.)

    (1841)


                             LIGHT, DIVINE

   In the oxy-hydrogen lantern the operator first lights the
   hydrogen burner, and it burns like any other gas-light. Then
   he turns slowly upon it a little jet of oxygen, under which
   at first the flame seems dying down. But presently the lime
   candle kindles, and its flame, concentrated by the condensers
   to a small jet, begins to glow with a brilliancy that darkens
   everything else and can not be endured to look on. So in the
   movement of the world--in the “coming age”--there is high
   character and grand heroism, and as one studies it he sees
   that it is not Stephen’s face that shone like an angel, or
   Moses’ which had to be veiled, but the ineffable Spirit that
   shone out in them both. The power of the coming age is not the
   power of any man, but the power of the God who made all things,
   and whose glory here glows and burns brighter than the sun,
   bringing out the littlest worthiness of human character in the
   concentrated light of love.--FRANKLIN NOBLE, “Sermons
   in Illustration.”

    (1842)


   =Light, Excess of=--See ADVICE DISREGARDED.


                           LIGHT FOR RESCUE

   The recently improved buoy is a remarkable device now in use in
   the life-saving service of the United States. By means of the
   signal lights, its position will always be known to those on
   shore and on the wreck. The green light moving toward the vessel
   mutely tells the shipwrecked passengers that help is at hand and
   encourages them to hold on until the buoy reaches them.

   How many imperiled mariners on the sea of life are lost in the
   darkness because they see not the helping hand stretched out to
   save them.

    (1843)


                             LIGHT-GIVING

One of the first lessons that Jesus inculcated in the minds of His
disciples who were to become His messengers, was that they should be
lights in the midst of the moral and spiritual gloom.

   A preacher one dark night lost his way in a corner of a strange
   neighborhood. Meeting a farm laborer and asking his way, he
   received for answer, “Follow that light and you will not have
   gone far before you hear the bells of the next village.”

    (1844)


                            LIGHT, IMMORTAL

Richard Watson Gilder, who died in 1909, and whose dream is now
reality, wrote this beautiful prayer:

    O Thou the Lord and Maker of life and light!
    Full heavy are the burdens that do weigh
    Our spirits earthward, as through twilight gray
    We journey to the end and rest of night;
    Tho well we know to the deep inward sight,
    Darkness is but Thy shadow, and the day
    Where Thou art never dies, but sends its rays
    Through the wide universe with restless might.

    O Lord of Light, steep Thou our souls in Thee!
    That when the daylight trembles into shade,
    And falls the silence of mortality,
    And all is done, we shall not be afraid,
    But pass from light to light; from earth’s dull gleam
    Into the very heart and heaven of our dream.

    (1845)


   =Light in Christ=--See CHRIST THE LIGHT.


                         LIGHT IN HUMILIATION

   In the neighborhood of Nice the hills are cut and seamed with
   remarkable gorges, among which are found deep holes known as
   “star wells.” They are so called because of the belief that from
   their bottoms stars can be seen even in daylight. These abysses
   have been formed by the action of water. It is, often, only when
   looking up out of the deeps of our own humiliation that we can
   see the stars of hope shining in the sky.

    (1846)


                           LIGHT, INCREASING

   The light to which you come at length in the railway tunnel,
   and before you reach the end of the tunnel, is the very same
   light exactly, as far as its nature is concerned, as the light
   into which you come at the end of the tunnel; and the light
   which shines from the end into the tunnel increases more and
   more from its first shining until you reach the full light at
   the end. So the wise man says that the path of the just is as
   the shining light that shineth more and more unto the perfect
   day. The light of the perfect day is the same as the light that
   shines in the path all along, and that began to shine even ere
   the sun was up. The lights are in nowise different except in
   degree.--ALEXANDER MILLER, “Heaven and Hell Here.”

    (1847)


                          LIGHT, INJURY FROM

In a moral sense it is better to face the light than to have it shine
on us indirectly.

   Do not make the mistake of supposing that brilliant lights are
   harmless except when looked at directly. As a matter of fact
   they are even more dangerous when so placed as to shine into the
   eyes sidewise or from above, since the eye is less accustomed
   to receive bright light from such directions. In other words,
   light from such direction falls upon the outer parts of the
   surface of the retina, which, being less accustomed to receive
   bright light, are the more quickly injured by it. Cases are on
   record where persons working in the vicinity of bare lamps so
   placed have entirely lost the sight of one or both eyes.--_The
   Illuminating Engineer._

    (1848)


                          LIGHT OF THE WORLD

   Among the Tsimshean Indians of Alaska the following legend is
   current: “At first it was entirely dark. There was no light in
   the world. The people could see nothing, but were groping around
   in a continual night. Then the son of the heavenly chief came
   down to earth, and the people complained to him that it was so
   dark. He said he would help them, and then light came.”

A faint reflection, all this, of the story of Him who is indeed the
Light of the world. (Text.)

    (1849)


                        LIGHT PREVENTING CRIME

   Many banks, stores, and warehouses turn on their lights at
   night, and leave their window-shutters wide open so that the
   entire interior may be seen by the policemen or watchman on the
   beat. This makes it possible to detect any change inside, or the
   presence of any one who might be bent on robbing. (Text.)

    (1850)


                           LIGHT, SAFETY IN

   “Let your light shine.” Do not go to places where your light
   will not shine. Sam P. Jones says: “Some years ago my father had
   two Irishmen digging a well for him. They went off on a drinking
   spree, after they had gotten the well about three-fourths done.
   They returned to finish up, but long experience and observation
   had taught them that what is known as ‘fire-damp’ or poisonous
   gases, sometimes accumulates in the bottom of a well. They came
   to the house and asked my mother for a bucket and a candle. They
   set the candle in the bottom of the bucket and lowered it slowly
   into the well, and the candle went out. Pat said, ‘Ah, Jamie,
   there is death in that hole.’ They got some pine brush, tied
   a rope to them and swished the well out with them. They again
   lowered the candle and it burned brightly clear to the bottom.
   And the Irishman said, ‘The candle burns bright; she’s safe
   now.’”--“Famous Stories of Sam P. Jones.”

    (1851)


                           LIGHT, SOURCE OF

   Light can not be seen. At great heights reached by aeronauts the
   heavens seem black, and the stars come out and twinkle against
   a background of jet. Yet this unfathomed deep of darkness is
   light and nothing but light. Whatever object the light falls
   upon shines; every object that produces it shines; but the light
   itself is not seen.

God is light. No man hath seen him at any time, but there is no glory
that does not come from Him. No light shines on earth that did not come
from heaven. Yet a man may sit by his little lamp and forget the sun
and stars. (Text.)

    (1852)


                           LIGHT THAT CHEERS

The Rev. C. A. S. Dwight says:

   “During a damp, foggy evening along the New England shore, a
   summer resident who had been skirting the beach in a row-boat,
   was struggling at the oars, trying to drive his little craft
   through the waters despite the drag upon it of a heavy object
   towing on behind. It was a dismal evening, and he was tired and
   weary of his attempted task. But just when his depression was
   greatest he heard the voice of his little boy hailing him from
   the beach. Looking through the gloom he could discern the faint
   glow on the shore, while his boy called encouragingly, ‘Papa,
   I’ll cheer you with this lantern!’ The heart of the father was
   gladdened, and his work after that seemed light, for so great is
   the power of loving sympathy that it illumines all shadows and
   lightens all tasks.

   “I’ll cheer you with this lantern!” We all of us hold in our
   hands some instrument of blessing, whether it be a lantern or
   not, by the use of which, if we are alert to note the changing
   necessities of those about us, we can every now and then cast a
   gladdening or directing ray over life’s dark waters, or extend
   some other “help in time of need” to a troubled brother.” (Text.)

    (1853)


                            LIKENESS OF GOD

   King Edward of England was driving along a country road in
   Scotland one day when he overtook an old market-woman struggling
   under a load which was more than she could well manage. “You
   might take part of this in your carriage,” she cried to the
   King whom she did not recognize. “Alas! my good woman,” replied
   his Majesty with royal courtesy, “I’m very sorry, but I’m not
   going the same way. However, let me give you the portrait of
   my mother.” “A lot of good that will do me,” said the woman
   testily. “Take it all the same,” said the King, smiling, and he
   put a sovereign, bearing Queen Victoria’s effigy, in the palm of
   the astonished old peasant.

That is exactly what every kind deed or generous gift is, a likeness of
our Father. It is just like Him.

    (1854)


   =Likeness to Christ=--See FUTURE LIFE.


                       LIMITATION OF THE SENSES

   Reasoning from the analogy of stretched strings and membranes,
   and of air vibrating in tubes, etc., we are justified in
   concluding that the smaller the drum or the tube the higher
   will be the note it produces when agitated, and the smaller and
   the more rapid the aerial wave to which it will respond. The
   drums of insect ears, and the tubes, etc., connected with them,
   are so minute that their world of sounds probably begins where
   ours ceases; that the sound which appears to us as continuous
   is to them a series of separated blows, just as vibrations of
   ten or twelve per second appear to us. We begin to hear such
   vibrations as continuous sounds when they amount to about thirty
   per second. The insect’s continuous sound probably begins beyond
   three thousand. The bluebottle fly may thus enjoy a whole world
   of exquisite music of which we know nothing. (Text.)--W. MATTIEU
   WILLIAMS, “Science in Short Chapters.”

    (1855)


                         LIMITATIONS GLORIFIED

   We are apt to chafe at restrictions of all kinds, but these may
   be disguised blessings. Oftener the narrower the outward sphere,
   the more valuable the outcome. The lenses of a telescope are
   narrow, but through them we read the story of the stars. Darwin
   in the earthworm saw wonders which he spent several years in
   investigating. The wise botanist does not gather all the flowers
   in the garden at once; he confines himself to single specimens.
   One of Murillo’s finest pictures is in the Louvre at Paris. It
   shows us the interior of a convent kitchen; but doing the work
   there are not mortals in old dresses, but angels, white-winged
   and beautiful. One serenely puts the kettle on the fire to boil,
   and one is lifting up a pail of water with heavenly grace, and
   one is at the kitchen dresser reaching up for plates. As the
   painter puts it, all on the canvas are so busy, and working
   with such a will, and so refining the work as they do it, that
   somehow you forget that pans are pans and pots are pots, and
   only think of the angels, and how very natural and beautiful
   kitchen work is--just what the angels would do.

    (1856)


   =Lincoln and Children=--See CHILDREN, LINCOLN’S REGARD FOR.


   =Lincoln Story=--See GOOD FOR EVIL.


   =Lincoln’s First Dollar=--See MONEY, EARNING.


   =Liquor=--See MONEY, HOW WE SPEND OUR.


                            LIQUOR-TRAFFIC

The following chart shows the cost of intoxicating liquors consumed in
the United States for twenty years, and the relative yearly increase.
The chart is from the _American Prohibition Yearbook_:

    1888                      $  818,087,725
    ==================
    1889                         840,880,849
    ====================
    1890                         902,645,867
    ======================
    1891                         979,582,803
    ========================
    1892                       1,014,894,364
    =========================
    1893                       1,079,483,172
    ===========================
    1894                       1,024,621,491
    =========================
    1895                         970,947,333
    ======================
    1896                         962,094,975
    ======================
    1897                         993,203,557
    ========================
    1898                       1,041,562,868
    =========================
    1899                       1,070,689,978
    ===========================
    1900                       1,172,226,614
    =============================
    1901                       1,219,997,990
    ===============================
    1902                       1,347,783,644
    =================================
    1903                       1,410,610,218
    ==================================
    1904                       1,463,678,530
    ====================================
    1905                       1,465,901,664
    ====================================
    1906                       1,608,021,917
    =====================================
    1907                       1,757,307,854
    ========================================
    1908                       1,675,838,197
    =======================================

    (1858)


                        LIQUOR REVENUE REFUSED

   What a rebuke to this nation receiving millions of dollars
   annually from its revenue on liquors, is conveyed by the Queen
   of Madagascar when she says, “I can not consent, as your queen,
   to take a single penny of revenue from that which destroys the
   souls and bodies of my subjects.”--_Congregationalist._

    (1857)


                         LISTENING FOR SIGNALS

A news item, referring to the wreck of the _Republic_, and the hearing
of the first wireless news of the disaster by the operator at the
station on Nantucket Island, says:

   Imagine a lonely island in the middle of winter, thereon a
   lonely Marconi station, therein a lonely Marconi operator,
   with his telephones glued to his head watching the break of
   day, thinking of his past and future, listening for any sign
   of life in his telephones. Imagine that man suddenly startled
   with a faint, very faint, call from a ship using the recognized
   distress signal, giving her position and calling for help.
   Slowly, all too slowly, came the cry for urgent aid, each call
   seemingly taking an hour’s valuable time, yet in truth but a
   fraction of a second. Will he never sign? Who can it be? At last
   came the recognized code letters of the White Star _Republic_,
   and again the call for aid. With this information Operator
   Irwin, of the Marconi force at the station here, who was on duty
   at the time, immediately got the wires hot, knowing the revenue
   cutter _Acushnet_ to be lying at Wood’s Hole, and within one
   minute the captain was informed that his calls had been heard
   and aid was being rushed to him.

The soul attent to hear the world’s signals that call for help should
be ready to serve and save the lost and needy.

    (1859)


                              LITERALISM

   “One of the stories of the ‘road’ that Mr. Joseph Jefferson
   delighted to tell grew out of an experience in an Indiana town,
   where he was presenting ‘Rip Van Winkle,’ many years ago.

   “In the hotel where he stopt was an Irishman who was employed as
   a porter, but from the serious interest he took in the house he
   might have been clerk and proprietor rolled into one.

   “At six in the morning Mr. Jefferson was startled by a violent
   thumping at his door. With slowly returning consciousness,
   he remembered that he had left no call on the night before,
   and naturally became indignant. His sleep was spoiled for the
   morning, so he arose and appeared before the clerk.

   “‘See here,’ he demanded, ‘why have I been called at this
   unearthly hour?’

   “‘I don’t know,” replied the clerk. ‘I’ll ask Mike.’

   “The porter was summoned. ‘Mike, there was no call for Mr.
   Jefferson. Why did you disturb him?’ he was asked.

   “Taking the clerk by his coat-sleeve, the Irishman led him to
   one side. ‘He was shnoring loike a horse, sir,’ he explained,
   ‘and I’d heered by the b’yes how onct he were after slapin’ for
   twinty years, so, says I to myself, it’s a coomin’ on to him
   agin, an’ it’s yer juty to git the crayther out o’ the house
   instantly!’”

    (1860)

   See KNOWLEDGE BY INDIRECTION; JUDGMENT, LACK OF.


   =Literary Workman=--See ACQUISITION.


                     LITERATURE AND MIND EXPANSION

   When Coleridge was a boy of eight, his father on a starry night
   explained to him the size and number of the heavenly bodies
   with their vast movements. He looked for surprize and wonder
   in the boy. But the poet tells us that he felt no special
   wonder, because his mind, through long, happy days of reading
   fairy-stories, had grown accustomed to feelings of the vast, and
   to having criteria for belief other than those of his senses.
   Literature accustoms the mind to feelings of sublimity, wonder,
   intricacy, and the constant workings of higher laws. These are
   noble contributions to the religious consciousness.--WILLIAM
   D. MACCLINTOCK, “Proceedings of the Religious Education
   Association,” 1904.

    (1861)


                     LITERATURE AS AN INSPIRATION

   Literature is but one of the forms of art through which man’s
   aspiration, his ideals, are revealed. The soul of man takes the
   hues of that which environs it. It is literature which inspires;
   not linguistics, rhetoric, and grammar, valuable as these may
   be for other purposes. Witness the tributes of Darwin and Mill
   to the power of imaginative literature; these men mourned the
   fact that other things deprived them of that great power of
   culture of the feelings which the love of literature brought.
   Barrie has said that a young man may be better employed than
   in going to college; but when there, he is unfortunate if he
   does not meet some one who sends his life off at a new angle.
   “One such professor,” says he, “is the most any university may
   hope for in a single generation.” He says, “When you looked
   into my mother’s eyes, you knew why it was that God sent her
   into the world; it was to open the eyes of all who looked
   to beautiful thoughts, and that is the beginning and end of
   literature.” After having opened the eyes of people to beautiful
   thoughts, we must be willing to wait, for moral results do not
   come immediately.--A. J. GEORGE, “Proceedings of the
   Religious Education Association.”

    (1862)


                          LITERATURE, CURRENT

   Current literature is like a garden I once saw. Its proud owner
   led me through a maze of smooth-trodden paths, and pointed
   out a vast number of horticultural achievements. There were
   sixty-seven varieties of dahlias, there were more than a hundred
   kinds of roses, there were untold wonders which at last my
   weary brain refused to record. Finally I escaped, exhausted,
   and sought refuge on a hillside I knew, from which I could look
   across the billowing green of a great rye-field, and there,
   given up to the beauty of its manifold simplicity, I invited my
   soul.

   It is even so with our reading. When I go into one of our public
   reading-rooms, and survey the serried ranks of magazines and
   the long shelves full of “Recent fiction, not to be taken out
   for more than five days”--nay, even when I look at the library
   tables of some of my friends--my brain grows sick and I long for
   my rye-field.--_The Outlook._

    (1863)


   =Literature in Advertising=--See ADVERTISING.


   =Literature in Prisons=--See PRISON LITERATURE.


   =Literature, Short-lived=--See EVANESCENT LITERATURE.


   =Little Deeds of Kindness=--See CHEER, SIGNALS OF.


   =Little Evils=--See DESTRUCTIVENESS.


                             LITTLE GIFTS

   An Australian missionary was addressing a band of children on
   the needs of the people among whom he was working. A little one
   slipt a sixpence shyly into his hand with the request that he
   use it for something special. He bought with it a prayer-book,
   and gave it to a poor workhouse girl who had been sent from
   England to go into service on an Australian farm. She promised
   to read it faithfully. Several weeks later a rough-looking man
   came and asked him if he were the person who had given his
   servant a prayer-book. His wife was very ill and wanted to see
   him. Altho it was twenty miles inland, the clergyman went and
   ministered to the poor woman. A little while later the man came
   once more to the minister and said that he and his neighbors had
   built a little church and paid for it and wanted him to come
   and conduct services among them. Thus an entirely new work was
   opened as a result of the little child’s sixpence.

    (1864)

   See CHILD’S GIFT.


                              LITTLE SINS

   And I am afraid of little sins because they grow so great. No
   one can tell whereunto sin will lead. The beginnings of sin are
   like the leakings of water from a mighty reservoir; first an
   innocent ooze, then a drip, then a tiny stream, then a larger
   vein, then a flood, and the rampart gives way and the town
   is swept to ruin. The habits of sin are like the habits of
   burglars, who sometimes take a little fellow and put him through
   a window too small for a man to enter, and the child must open
   the door for the burglar gang to pass. So with little sins; they
   creep in and open the door for larger to enter. A little sin is
   the thin edge of the wedge, and when once inserted it can be
   driven home till it splits and ruins the life.--A. H. C.
   MORSE.

    (1865)

       *       *       *       *       *

   I remember, when a lad, the so-called army-worms first swept
   across the fields. They went straight ahead, and moved like
   a mighty host with captains. They were little things, but
   when they were gone the fields looked as tho they had been
   swept by a fire. So a thousand little wrongs in the life can
   rob it of beauty as really as one great, blazing, public
   transgression.--A. H. C. MORSE.

    (1866)

       *       *       *       *       *

   I am afraid of little sins because they involve a great
   principle. You go into a bank with a check for $1,000, and in
   his hurry the clerk passes out $1,100, and you walk out of the
   bank with that sum. You agree with me, I suppose, that you do a
   dishonest thing--that you have stolen $100. Would it not be the
   same if your check called for $5, and he gave you $6 by mistake?
   You ride on a train to Boston, and by some oversight your ticket
   is not collected, and you ride back on that very same ticket.
   You agree with me that the thing is wrong. Is it not the same
   when you ride on a trolley car and elude the conductor, or slip
   past the gateman and enter the train? In either case the man is
   a thief.--A. H. C. MORSE.

    (1867)


                             LITTLE THINGS

We belong to a scheme of nature in which the chief factor is the
infinitesimal. The composition of the elements depends on the
multitudinous accretions of particles. We are most in danger when we
overlook the power of mere atoms to affect us, and when we despise
trivial causes of mischief.

   A cathedral clock with its musical chimes suddenly stopt
   intoning its sacred and beautiful melodies. The cause was for a
   time a perplexity, as nothing could be discovered to have gone
   wrong with the machinery of the chimes. But at length it was
   found that a frail brown butterfly had become entangled in the
   wheelworks, and had brought to a complete standstill the clock
   and its chimes. (Text.)

    (1868)

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. S. P. Henson says:

   What a multitude of threads make up a fringe; and yet how
   beautiful and costly when completed! And here is found a beauty
   of the real Christian life. There are not a few who may be
   willing upon rare and notable occasions to do or suffer some
   great thing, but the ten thousand little things of life are
   entirely beneath their notice, as they also suppose them to be
   beneath the notice of the Lord. (Text.)

    (1869)

   See FAITH IN GOD.


   =Lives Corresponding to the Bible=--See NATIVE CONVERTS.


                           LIVES THAT SHINE

    Don’t waste your time in longing
      For bright, impossible things;
    Don’t sit supinely yearning
      For the swiftness of angel wings;
    Don’t spurn to be a rushlight
      Because you are not a star;
    But brighten some bit of darkness
      By shining just where you are.

    There is need of the tiniest candle
      As well as the garish sun;
    The humblest deed is ennobled
      When it is worthily done.
    You may never be called to brighten
      The darkened regions afar;
    So fill, for the day, your mission
      By shining just where you are.

    Just where you are, my brother,
      Just where God bids you stand,
    Tho down in the deepest shadow,
      Instead of the sunlit land;
    You may carry a brightness with you
      That no gloom or darkness can mar,
    For the light of a Christlike spirit
      Will be shining wherever you are.(Text.)

    (1870)


   =Living in the Faith of Jesus=--See CHRIST, FAITH IN.


                         LIVING IN THE SHADOW

   The second Duke of Wellington inherited a great talent for
   reticence from his father, and did not succeed to his title
   until he was forty-five. He had served in the army and in the
   House of Commons without making his mark in either save by
   conscientious attention to duty. In the House of Lords, however,
   shortly after taking his seat, he delivered a speech revealing
   such an intimate knowledge of public business, and of such
   luminous good sense, as to occasion surprize. Among those who
   congratulated him was “the candid friend” always present on
   such occasions. This “candid friend” explained to the duke that
   the latter had been generally regarded as a “colorless” man,
   and congratulated him on disproving the charge. The duke made a
   reply, applicable to many, saying, “If you had sat in the shade
   of a great tree for almost fifty years very likely people would
   have regarded you as colorless, too.”

   George V, like the second Duke of Wellington, has for almost
   half a century lived in the shadow of a great tree. From infancy
   up to his twenty-seventh year he was in the second rank of
   public interest. Not a negligible quantity, he yet could not
   be, while the Duke of Clarence lived, conspicuous. Moreover,
   he was wise to sink his royal personality in the discharge of
   his duty as a naval officer. The British have peculiar tastes
   and standards, and they do not altogether like to see a younger
   member of the royal family very conspicuous in public affairs. A
   “pushful” prince would be almost obnoxious to their traditions.
   A royal general or a royal admiral must not lead too much, or
   the old jealousy of militarism might crop out in the nation,
   which licenses the existence of its standing army only from
   year to year. Consequently George V, when Duke of York and
   subsequently when Prince of Wales, may have been called upon to
   dissemble, and he may yet demonstrate that his reputation as a
   colorless man is due to the public inability to understand what
   constitutes the spectrum of character.--Boston _Transcript_.

    (1871)


                         LIVING, STRENGTH FOR

    There was a time when low on bended knee,
      With outstretched hand and wet uplifted eye
      I cried: O Father, teach me how to die,
    And give me strength Death’s awful face to see
    And not to fear. Henceforth my prayer shall be;
      Help me to live. Stern life stalks by
      Relentless and inexorable, no cry
    For help or pity moveth her as she
    Gives to each one the burden of the day.
              Therefore, let us pray:
    Give us the strength we need to live, O Lord.

    --JULIA C. R. DORR.

    (1872)


   =Living, The, as an Asset=--See MOTIVE, MERCENARY.


                           LIVING THE GOSPEL

   An American teacher was employed in Japan in a government
   school, on the understanding that during school hours he should
   not utter a word on the subject of Christianity. The engagement
   was faithfully kept, and he lived before his students the Christ
   life, but never spoke of it to them. Not a word was said to
   influence the young men committed to his care, but so beautiful
   was his character, and so blameless his example, that forty of
   the students without his knowledge, met in a grove and signed a
   secret covenant to abandon idolatry. Twenty-five of them entered
   the Kyoto Christian Training School and some of them are now
   preaching the gospel which their teacher unconsciously commended.

    (1873)


   =Loads=--See OVERLOADING.


                         LOADS, BALKING UNDER

   This morning I saw a pair of horses which had evidently become
   discouraged by being hitched to loads that were too heavy for
   them. At the start they did their best to go forward; when the
   driver struck them with his whip they made an effort to pull;
   but one could see that their spirit had been broken; the long
   struggle with unequal burdens had caused them to lose their
   confidence and their grip, and after a while they ceased to make
   any effort to move.

   I have often seen other horses loaded beyond their strength; but
   no matter how heavy their load, they would pull again and again
   with all their might, stretching to the utmost every muscle,
   nerve, and fiber in them; and, altho they could not start the
   load, they would never give up trying.

   Everywhere in life we find people like those horses. Some have
   become discouraged by trying to carry too heavy a load, and
   finally give up the struggle. They spurt a little now and again,
   but there is no heart, no spirit in their effort. The buoyancy
   and cheer and enthusiasm have gone out of their lives. They have
   been tugging away over heavy loads so long that they have become
   disheartened. There is no more fight in them.

   There are others who, no matter how heavy their load, will
   never cease in their efforts to go forward. They will try
   a thousand times with all their might and main; they will
   tug away until completely exhausted; they will gather their
   strength and try again and again without losing heart or
   courage. Nothing will daunt them, or induce them to give up
   the struggle. When everybody else lets go, they stick because
   they are made of winning material, the mettle which never gives
   up.--_Success._

    (1874)


                              LOCAL PRIDE

Augustine Burrell tells the following incident which goes to prove that
things are great or small to men, according to very local points of
view:

   Bonnor, the Australian cricketer, told us that until that
   evening he had never heard of Dr. Johnson. Thereupon somebody
   was thoughtless enough to titter audibly. “Yes,” added Bonnor,
   in heightened tones, and drawing himself proudly up, “and what
   is more, I come from a great country, where you might ride a
   horse sixty miles a day for three months, and never meet anybody
   who had.”

    (1875)


   =Location=--See SENTIMENT MIXED.


   =Location in Animals=--See DIRECTION, SENSE OF.


                            LOCUSTS AS FOOD

   In the East, as elsewhere, since the Biblical days of John’s
   “locusts and honey,” locusts have been deemed more or less
   edible. In Palestine to this day they are considered a luxury.
   The Jews fry them in sesame oil, sesame being the grain of
   which mention is made in the story of “Ali Baba and the
   Forty Thieves,” a favorite tale in the _Arabian Nights_
   entertainments.

   In Arabia Petrea locusts are dried in the sun and then ground
   into a sort of flour for baking; and in Central Africa certain
   tribes employ locusts for making a thick brown soup.

   In Madagascar they are baked in huge jars, fried in grease, and
   then mixed with rice, forming a dainty much affected by the
   dusky inhabitants of that big island.

   The Algerians have a simpler method. They merely boil the
   locusts in water and salt them to the taste. The Arabians grind
   and bake the locusts as cakes, roast them in butter, or else
   crush them in a mixture of camel’s cheese and dates.

   Locusts are also eaten, in times of famine, in southern Russia,
   generally by the poorest of the poor, among whom the insects are
   smoked like fish. In the preparation of locusts for food the
   legs and wings are invariably detached.

   It is said that, while the flavor of locusts is strangely
   disagreeable in the raw state, this flavor is readily disguised
   and even becomes agreeable when the insect is cooked. Some of
   the locust soups are, we are told, scarcely to be distinguished
   from beef broth; and when the little insects are fried in their
   own oil and slightly salted they take on a pleasing nutty
   flavor. (Text.)--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (1876)


                         LONELINESS, PERILS OF

   Recently a London pastor preached a sermon on the after-business
   occupations of young people, in which he said that from 6 to
   11 P.M. was the danger zone for young folks who are
   employed during the day. Speaking of the mesmeric glitter of
   London, and the fascination of its so-called amusements, he
   made the assertion that he believed that the theaters and
   music-halls should be controlled by the churches.

   The Sunday-school _Chronicle_ sent an interviewer to ask
   him why he made this statement. His answer follows:

   “First of all,” said the pastor, “I have been so deeply imprest
   by the sense of awful loneliness which is experienced by young
   people coming to central London from the provinces. I know
   for a fact that scores of young men and women go to the bad
   because of the absolute friendlessness of their lives. Six
   months ago I spent two days at the Old Bailey Sessions House
   trying to snatch a girl of nineteen from prison. She came to
   London motherless and friendless, and was spoken to kindly by
   a young man in Oxford street. She appreciated the apparent
   sympathy which this stranger extended to her--well, the rest
   of the story of her downfall may be imagined. Many of these
   young people have nowhere to go after business hours but the
   music-hall or the public-house, and the things they take away
   from these places and retail in their houses of business are the
   questionable jokes which they have heard. So for these young
   people I plead for churches that are homes and amusements that
   are healthy.”--_The Advance._

    (1877)


   =Lonesomeness Abated=--See REMINDERS.


                        LONGEVITY ACCOUNTED FOR

Senator Chauncey M. Depew, entertained at a dinner on the occasion of
his seventy-sixth birthday, said:

   Fifty-four years in public and semipublic life and upon the
   platform all over this country and in Europe for all sorts of
   objects in every department of human interest have given me
   a larger acquaintance than almost anybody living. The sum of
   observation and experience growing out of this opportunity is
   that granted normal conditions, no hereditary troubles, and
   barring accidents and plagues, the man who dies before seventy
   commits suicide. Mourning the loss of friends has led me to
   study the causes of their earlier departure. It could invariably
   be traced to intemperance in the broadest sense of that word;
   intemperance in eating, in drinking, in the gratification of
   desires, in work, and in irregularity of hours, crowning it all
   with unnecessary worry.--New York _Times_.

    (1878)


   =Longevity and Work=--See INDUSTRY AND LONGEVITY.


                         LONGEVITY, EXAMPLE OF

   One of the most extraordinary incidents in the whole record of
   longevity is reported from Pesth, in Hungary, where a beggar,
   aged eighty-four, tried to commit suicide by throwing himself
   into the Danube because he was no longer able to support his
   father and mother, who are one hundred and fifteen and one
   hundred and ten years old, respectively. When he told this
   story, after his rescue, it was laughed at, but a police inquiry
   showed it to be true. The family are Magyars from the extreme
   south of Hungary.--_Public Opinion._

    (1879)


                         LONGEVITY INCREASING

   “It is estimated,” said Dr. Felton, the learned Georgia
   statesman, divine, and M.D., in an address before the graduating
   class of Atlanta Medical College, “that human life has increased
   twenty-five per cent in the past fifty years.” The average human
   life in Rome under Cæsar was eighteen years; now it is forty.
   The average in France fifty years ago was twenty-eight; the mean
   duration in 1887 was forty-five and one-half years. In Geneva
   during the thirteenth century a generation played its part upon
   the stage and disappeared in fourteen years; now the drama
   requires forty years before the curtain falls. During the golden
   reign of good Queen Bess, in London and all the large cities of
   merry old England, fifty out of every 1,000 paid the last debt
   to nature early, which means instead of threescore-and-ten, they
   averaged but one score. Now, in the city of London, the average
   is forty-seven years.--DR. TODD.

    (1880)

   See IMPROVED CONDITIONS.


                        LONGEVITY, RECIPES FOR

   A complete list of infallible prescriptions for the prolongation
   of human life would fill a voluminous book, and would include
   some decidedly curious specifics. “To what do you ascribe your
   hale old age?” the Emperor Augustus asked a centenarian whom
   he found wrestling in the palestra and bandying jokes with the
   young athletes. “_Intus mulso, foris oleo_,” said the old
   fellow. “Oil for the skin and mead (water and honey) for the
   inner man.” Cardanus suggests that old age might be indefinitely
   postponed by a semifluid diet warmed (like mother’s milk) to
   the exact temperature of the human system; and Voltaire accuses
   his rival Maupertuis of having hoped to attain a similar
   result by varnishing his hide with a sort of resinous paint
   (_un poix resineux_) that would prevent the vital strength
   from evaporating by exhalation. Robert Burton recommends “oil
   of unaphar and dormouse fat”; Paracelsus rectified spirits
   of alcohol; Horace, olives and marshmallows. Dr. Zimmerman,
   the medical adviser of Frederick the Great, sums up the “Art
   of Longevity” in the following words: “Temperate habits,
   outdoor exercise, and steady industry, sweetened by occasional
   festivals.”(Text.)--FELIX OSWALD, _Bedford’s
   Magazine_.

    (1881)


                                LONGING

    The thing we long for, that we are
      For one transcendent moment,
    Before the present, poor and bare,
      Can make its sneering comment.

           *       *       *       *       *

    Longing is God’s fresh heavenward will
      With our poor earthward striving;
    We quench it that it may be still--
      Content with merely living;
    But, would we learn that heart’s full scope,
      Which we are hourly wronging,
    Our lives must climb from hope to hope,
      And realize the longing.

    --JAMES RUSSELL LOWELL.

    (1882)


   =Look, The Kind=--See FACE, AN INVITING.


                       LOOKING BOTH UP AND DOWN

    “Your way is dark,” the angel said,
      “Because you downward gaze,
    Look up; the sun is overhead,
      Look up and learn to praise.”
    I looked; I learned. Who looks above
    Will find in heaven both light and love.

    “Why upward gaze?” the angel said;
      “Have you not learned to know
    The light of God shines overhead
      That men may work below?”
    I learned. Who only looks above
    May miss below the work of love,

    And thus I learned the lessons twain:
      The heart whose treasure is above
    Will gladly turn to earth again
      Because the heaven is love.
    Yea, love that framed the starry height
    Came down to earth and gave it light.

    --BISHOP OF RIPON.

    (1883)


                             LOOKING DOWN

   It is usually the small-souled and narrow-minded man who can
   decry faults and failings with an eagle eye, but upon whom
   all the finer and grander qualities of humanity are lost. To
   him who ever walks with head bent and eyes on the ground the
   whole universe appears to be made of dust; but he who goes with
   head erect and eyes uplifted breathes the pure air and greets
   the rising sun, and forgets the dust that may be under his
   feet.--Philadelphia _Ledger_.

    (1884)


                              LOOKING UP

   In the early days of Britain, when the Christian Cuthbert and
   his companions were driven from the bitter land to sea, and then
   were cast upon a dreary shore by a terrible storm, they cried,
   “No path is open for us; let us perish: we are driven from land
   to sea and from sea to land.” And Cuthbert answered, “Have ye so
   little faith, my comrades?” and then lifting his eyes to heaven
   he prayed, “I thank Thee, Lord, that the way to heaven is still
   open.”

When there is no other way to look for help, we may look up. (Text.)

    (1885)


   =Loquacity=--See VERBIAGE.


                       LORD’S PRAYER INTERPRETED

A friend tells us an anecdote of Booth, the tragedian:

   Booth and several friends had been invited to dine with an old
   gentleman in Baltimore, of distinguished kindness, urbanity,
   and piety. The host, altho disapproving of theaters and
   theater-going, had heard so much of Booth’s remarkable powers
   that curiosity to see the man had, in this instance, overcome
   all scruples and prejudices. After the entertainment was over,
   lamps lighted, and the company reseated in the drawing-room,
   some one requested Booth as a particular favor, and one which
   all present would doubtless appreciate, to read aloud the Lord’s
   Prayer. Booth exprest his willingness to do this, and all
   eyes were turned expectantly upon him. Booth rose slowly and
   reverently from his chair. It was wonderful to watch the play
   of emotions that convulsed his countenance. He became deathly
   pale, and his eyes, turned tremblingly upward, were wet with
   tears. And yet he had not spoken. The silence could be felt. It
   became absolutely painful, till at last the spell was broken as
   if by an electric shock, as his rich-toned voice, from white
   lips syllabled forth, “Our Father who art in heaven,” etc., with
   a pathos and solemnity that thrilled all hearers. He finished.
   The silence continued. Not a voice was heard or a muscle moved
   in his rapt audience, till from a remote corner of the room a
   subdued sob was heard, and the old gentleman, their host, stept
   forward, with streaming eyes and tottering frame, and seized
   Booth by the hand. “Sir,” said he, in broken accents, “you have
   afforded me a pleasure for which my whole future life will feel
   grateful. I am an old man, and every day from my boyhood to
   the present time I thought I had repeated the Lord’s prayer;
   but I have never heard it--never.” “You are right,” replied
   Booth; “to read that prayer as it should be read has caused
   me the severest study and labor for thirty years; and I am
   far from being satisfied with my rendering of that wonderful
   production.”--_The Millenarian._

    (1886)


   =Losing and Saving=--See MESSAGE, A TIMELY.


   =Loss and Gain=--See COMPENSATION; DEPORTMENT; FAST LIVING.


                            LOSS AND PROFIT

   It is said that the bursting of a pin in the driving-wheel of
   an engine in the Illinois Steel Company will cost the company
   $369,000, since the accident stopt the operation of the whole
   plant about six days and a half, and the loss involved by the
   stop was reckoned at about $40 a minute. This fable teaches that
   great business operations work both ways: where big profits are
   made big losses stand ready to overwhelm when something goes
   wrong.

    (1887)


   =Loss Creating Wealth=--See DISCOVERY, ACCIDENTAL.


                             LOSS, GAIN IN

When Mahamoud, the conqueror of India, took the city of Gujarat, he
proceeded, as his custom was, to destroy the idols. One of these,
standing fifteen feet high, the attendant priests and devotees begged
him to spare. But, deaf to their entreaties, he seized a hammer and
smote the idol, when to his amazement from the shattered image there
rained a shower of gems--pearls and diamonds--treasures of fabulous
value hidden within it. (Text.)

    (1888)


   =Loss Through Disuse=--See TALENTS, BURIED.


   =Lost and Won=--See SUCCESS.


                              LOST CHORDS

   How few of us have kept the early joy, and have continued in
   blest peace? Of course, you know the story of the lost chord?
   A woman, in the shadows of the twilight, when her heart was
   sad, gently touched the keys of a glorious organ. She did not
   know nor care what she was playing; her fingers lingered idly
   but caressingly upon the keys. Suddenly she struck a chord, and
   its wondrous melody as it filled the room was uplifting and
   transforming and heavenly.

    It flooded the crimson twilight,
      Like the close of an angel’s psalm,
    And it lay on her fevered spirit
      With the touch of infinite calm.

    It quieted pain and sorrow,
      Like love overcoming strife;
    It seemed the harmonious echo
      From our discordant life.

    It linked all perplexed meanings
      Into one perfect peace,
    And trembled away in silence,
      As if it were loath to cease.

   Something disturbed this woman and called her from the organ. As
   soon as possible she hurried back and began to play, but this
   divine chord was gone, and tho she kept on playing she could not
   bring it back again. (Text.)--CURTIS LEE LAWS.

    (1889)


                           LOST, CRY OF THE

   A drover in Dakota promised to bring home from his cattle sale
   a doll for his little girl. He was caught in a blizzard, and
   night found him still miles from home. In the darkness he heard
   a cry, possibly of a child lost in the storm. He was thankful
   for the warm house that sheltered his own child, but he could
   not leave that cry off in the dark, tho he knew he was risking
   his life lingering. It was hard tracing the feeble cry, and
   when at last he found it it was not crying. He gathered it up
   under his big overcoat and struggled homeward, stumbling, nearly
   perishing, but at last fell in over his own threshold, with his
   own child saved in his arms.--FRANKLIN NOBLE, “Sermons
   in Illustration.”

    (1890)


                           LOST, FINDING THE

Shortly before the death of Eugene Field a friend from one of the
Southern States told him a pathetic story of a girl who had wandered
away from her home in the country and taken refuge in a large city,
with the usual results of that dangerous step:

   Her old father mourned for the girl he had lost; but in his
   simplicity it never occurred to him to try to find her, for the
   world beyond the limits of his township was vast and forbidding.
   But word came to him one day that somebody had seen his daughter
   in the city, one hundred miles away, and with only that to guide
   him he went in search of her.

   Once in the city, he shrank from the noise and confusion of the
   crowds. He waited until night, and then when the streets were
   comparatively deserted, he roamed up and down from one street to
   another, giving the peculiar cry he had always used when looking
   for a lost lamb--a cry the girl herself had heard and given
   many times in her better days. A policeman stopt the old man
   and warned him that he was disturbing the peace, whereupon the
   father told his story and said:

   “She will come to me if she hears that cry.”

   The officer was moved by the old man’s simplicity and
   earnestness, and offered to accompany him in his search. So
   on they went up and down the thoroughfares and into the most
   abandoned sections of the city, the farmer giving the plaintive
   cry and the officer leading the way that seemed the most
   promising of success.

   And success did come. The girl heard the cry, recognized it, and
   intuitively felt that it was for her. She rushed into the street
   and straight to her father’s arms. She confest the weariness and
   misery of her lot, and begged that he would take her back to the
   farm, where she might begin a new and better life. Together they
   left the city the next day. (Text.)

    (1891)


   =Lost, Not, but Gone Before=--See EVIDENCE, PROVIDENTIAL.


                           LOST, SEEKING THE

   Years ago when Charley Ross was kidnapped, his broken-hearted
   father declared: “I will search for my lost boy while life
   lasts. I will go up and down the earth, and look into the face
   of this child and that to see if it is my lost boy.”

The great Father is engaged in a similar search; nor will He rest until
the lost is found. (Text.)

    (1892)

       *       *       *       *       *

The Arab Waziers have a tradition as to their origin:

   A certain ancestor had two sons, Issa and Missa, which may
   mean Jesus and Moses. Missa was a shepherd, and one day a lamb
   wandered away and was not to be found. For three days and nights
   Missa sought it far and near through the jungle. On the fourth
   morning he found it in a distant valley, and instead of being
   angry with the lamb for straying and giving him all his pains
   and anxiety, he took it in his arms, prest it to his bosom,
   kissed it tenderly and carried it back to the flock. For this
   humane act God greatly blest Missa and made him progenitor of
   the Wazir tribe. (Text.)

    (1893)


   =Lot, Consulting the Bible by=--See BIBLIOMANCY.


                                 LOVE

To cease from egotistic ambition and learn love with a humble mind is
the lesson of this verse by John G. Neehardt:

    For my faith was the faith of dusk and riot,
      The faith of fevered blood and selfish lust;
    Until I learned that love is cool and quiet
      And not akin to dust.

    For once as in Apocalyptic vision,
      Above my smoking altars did I see
    My god’s face, veilless, ugly with derision--
      The shameless, magnified; projected--_Me_!

    And I have left mine ancient fanes to crumble,
      And I have hurled my false gods from the sky;
    I wish to grasp the joy of being humble,
      To build great love an altar ere I die.

    (1894)

       *       *       *       *       *

Love is not merely a sentiment. It will have its material expression
if it is real. The following from Dr. W. T. Grenfell refers to the
fishermen of the North Sea Coast:

   The intense cold of winter, and the inadequacy of the warm
   clothes with which the men, and especially the boys, were unable
   to provide themselves, claimed attention, and warm hearts of
   Christian ladies told all over England were moved by the tales
   of this great need. Hundreds and thousands of warm mittens,
   helmets, mufflers, and guernseys have been sent out during
   these past years, and have been true messages of love.

   “Look ’ere,” said a grizzled skipper, pulling out three mufflers
   from his pocket, to three wild friends of his whom he was
   visiting, “look ’ere, will yer admit there’s love in those
   mufflers? Yer see them ladies never see’d yer, nor never knowed
   yer, yet they jest sent me these mufflers for you. Well, then,
   how much more must Christ Jesus ’ave loved yer, when He give His
   life blood to save yer.”

   I have it from his own lips as well as one of theirs, that this
   was the beginning of leading those three men to God; and before
   he left the ship that night, they were trusting in Christ for
   pardon, and for strength to live as His children.

    (1895)

       *       *       *       *       *

Joseph Dana Miller shows how love socializes the solitary soul:

    God pity those who know not the touch of hands--
      Who dwell from all their fellows far apart,
    Who, isolated in unpeopled lands,
      Know not a friend’s communion, heart to heart!

    But pity these--oh, pity these the more,
      Who of the populous town a desert make,
    Pent in a solitude upon whose shore
      The tides of sweet compassion never break!

    These are the dread Saharas we enclose
      About our lives when love we put away;
    Amid life’s roses, not a scent of rose;
      Amid the blossoming, nothing but decay.

    But if ’tis love we search for, knowledge comes,
      And love that passeth knowledge--God is there!
    Who seek the love of hearts find in their homes
      Peace at the threshold, angels on the stair. (Text.)

    --_Munsey’s Magazine._

    (1896)

       *       *       *       *       *

The old fable of the bar of iron as an illustration of the superior
power of love will never be superseded.

   The bar of iron lay across a log to be broken. “I can make it
   yield,” boasted the hammer, but at the first blow the hammer
   flew from its handle helpless to the ground. The ax followed
   proudly, “I can succeed.” But after two or three strokes its
   edge was dulled without leaving any impression on the iron bar.
   “I, with my sharp teeth, will soon sever it,” said the saw, with
   a confident air; only to have all its teeth broken in the task.
   At length a quiet, warm flame said, “Let me try, it may yield
   to me.” And the little flame twined itself about the iron in a
   gentle, loving way, imparting an influence that finally made the
   strong bar yield and fall apart.

    (1897)

       *       *       *       *       *

The power of love to draw out what is best in men is poetically exprest
by L. M. Montgomery:

    Upon the marsh mud, dank and foul,
      A golden sunbeam softly fell,
    And from the noisome depths arose
      A lily miracle.

    Upon a dark, bemired life
      A gleam of human love was flung.
    And lo, from that ungenial soil
      A noble deed upsprung.

    (1898)

       *       *       *       *       *

Upon the foundation of love a great work was done in Paris, France:

   When Mr. McAll began his work he could utter but two sentences
   in the tongue of those workingmen. One was “God loves you,” and
   the other, “I love you”; and upon those two, as pillars, the
   whole arch rests.--PIERSON, “The Miracles of Missions.”

    (1899)

   See PRODIGAL, THE.


                            LOVE A FINALITY

In his poem “Virgillia” Edwin Markham has these stanzas:

    If this all is a dream, then perhaps our dreaming
      Can touch life’s height to a finer fire;
    Who knows but the heavens and all their seeming,
      Were made by the heart’s desire?

    One thing shines clear in the heart’s own reason,
      One lightning over the chasm runs--
    That to turn from love is the world’s one treason
      That treads down all the suns.

    So I go to the long adventure, lifting
      My face to the far, mysterious goals,
    To the last assize, to the final sifting
      Of gods and stars and souls. (Text.)

    --_The Cosmopolitan._

    (1900)


                           LOVE A HARMONIZER

   Life’s harmony must have its discords; but, as in music, pathos
   is tempered into pleasure by the pervading spirit of beauty,
   so are all life’s sounds tempered by love.--GEORGE HENRY
   LEWES.

    (1901)


   =Love, A Mother’s=--See MOTHER-LOVE.


                           LOVE, A PROOF OF

We can not permanently benefit men until we are willing to get near to
them. The Christian method of charity is illustrated in this incident
in the career of a notable promoter of London city missions:

   Love is not fastidious; her hands are as busy as her heart is
   full. He (Frank Crossley) found five dirty youngsters (their
   father a sot, their mother in the sick ward), and he burned
   their old clothes and clad them in clean ones, and then sent
   them to play with his own boy! Is it any wonder if both their
   father and mother were won?--PIERSON, “The Miracles of
   Missions.”

    (1902)


                             LOVE AND LAW

   As to which was the first and greatest command, the rabbis
   were in grave doubt. Most agreed that the smallest and least
   command was the one concerning the bird’s nest, recorded in
   Deut. 22:6, 7; but when it came to the first and greatest, they
   were in doubt, whether it was the one respecting the observance
   of the Sabbath, or the law concerning circumcision, or the
   one concerning fringes and phylacteries, while still others
   contended that the omission of ceremonial ablutions was as bad
   as homicide. With these distinctions and differences and absurd
   hair-splittings in mind the young lawyer addrest the master
   with the question, “Which is the first commandment of all?”
   What a majestic answer was that which he received! Nothing in
   it about fringes and phylacteries, nothing about ceremonial
   washings, nothing about attitudes and genuflections; but the
   grand answer which will abide for all time to come: “Thou shalt
   love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul,
   and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength, this is the
   first commandment.” This answer goes to the heart of the matter.
   Eighteen hundred years have not suggested any improvement or
   addition to the great answer, nor will eighteen hundred years to
   come, because it embraces all other answers and is the sum total
   of morality.--_The Golden Rule._

    (1903)


                             LOVE AND TIME

Love that lasts is the power that binds heart to heart with the
indissoluble bonds. Such love knows no limit of time. Dr. Van Dyke says:

            Time is
    Too slow for those who wait,
    Too swift for those who fear,
    Too long for those who grieve,
    Too short for those who rejoice;
            But for those who love
              Time is not!

    --_Church Advocate._

    (1904)


   =Love as a Converting Power=--See PERSECUTION AND PRAYER.


                           LOVE AS A SIDING

   With our differing hereditary traits, educations, experience,
   and ways of living and thinking, it is quite impossible that
   there should not be collisions with those with whom we are
   living or working. We are like a number of trains trying to
   go in different directions on the same track. Congestions are
   certain to come, but a congestion need not degenerate into a
   collision and a wreck if we will remember that there are plenty
   of sidings. Now a “siding” is a sort of abbreviated second
   track whereby trains going in opposite directions may pass each
   other in safety. In material railways they bear various names;
   on the invisible pathway of life they are all called love.
   Sometimes they are nicknamed forbearance, tolerance, patience,
   or common sense; but these are all translations of the same
   thing. So in case of danger, remember the sidings.--JAMES M.
   STIFLER, “The Fighting Saint.”

    (1905)


   =Love Compared=--See CHRIST’S LOVE.


                          LOVE, CONQUESTS OF

          There is a story told
    In Eastern tents, when autumn nights grow cold
    And round the fire the Mongol shepherds sit
    With grave responses listening unto it:
    Once, on the errands of his mercy bent,
    Buddha, the holy and benevolent,
    Met a fell monster, huge and fierce of look,
    Whose awful voice the hills and forests shook.
    “O son of peace!” the giant cried, “thy fate
    Is sealed at last, and love shall yield to hate.”
    The unarmed Buddha, looking, with no trace
    Of fear or anger, in the monster’s face,
    In pity said: “Poor friend, even thee I love.”
    Lo! as he spake, the sky-tall terror sank
    To hand-breadth size; the huge abhorrence shrank
    Into the form and fashion of a dove;
    And where the thunder of its rage was heard,
    Circling above him, sweetly sang the bird:
    “Hate hath no harm for love,” so ran the song.
    “And peace unweaponed conquers every wrong!”

    --GEORGE DANA BOARDMAN.

    (1906)


   =Love Dissolving Doubts=--See DOUBTS, DISSOLVING.


                         LOVE DRIVING OUT FEAR

   Mr. Robert E. Speer stopt from a British India steamer at Muscat
   to visit Rev. Peter Zwemer, who was working there alone. Mr.
   Zwemer took his visitor up to his house, where, he said, his
   family were staying. There, sitting on benches about the room,
   were eighteen little black boys. They had been rescued from a
   slave-ship that had been coming up the eastern coast of Arabia
   with those little fellows, to be sold on the date plantations
   along the Tigris and Euphrates rivers. The British consul had
   seized them from the traders, and Mr. Zwemer had undertaken to
   keep them until they were eighteen years old, when they would be
   given their manumission papers.

   “When I got them,” said Mr. Zwemer, “the whole eighteen huddled
   together in the middle of the floor, like jack-rabbits, and
   every time I came close, they huddled a little nearer. They
   mistrusted every one. On each little cheek-bone was the brand
   of the slave’s iron, and for months and months they had known
   nothing but hatred and beatings, and had been shut down in the
   hold of the slave-ship, in order that they might make no noise
   and betray their presence.”

   As Mr. Speer saw them they looked happy and confident, and they
   sang for him, “Jesus loves me, this I know,” looking as if the
   realization that all their blessings had come from that divine
   Source had already sunk deep into their hearts. (Text.)

    (1907)


                             LOVE, FILIAL

   A boy of thirteen was often brought to Judge Lindsey’s Juvenile
   Court in Denver, charged with truancy. Notwithstanding the judge
   admonished him many times, it did not seem to do him any good.
   The teacher kept writing, “Tim will stay out of school to work.”

   Once, when reproving him, the judge told him that there would be
   time enough to work when he was a man. “My father was a man,”
   replied the boy, “and he did not work. He went off and left
   mother and me. I guess that’s what killed her.”

   Finally, Tim appeared in court one day with a happy face, and
   pulling a soiled and crumpled paper from his pocket, handed it
   to the judge. “I’m goin’ to remember all the things you told me
   and I’m goin’ to school regular, now I got that done,” he said,
   with some pride. Judge Lindsey examined the paper, which proved
   to be a receipted bill, and found that, little by little, Tim
   had paid fifty dollars for a headstone at his mother’s grave.

   “My boy, is that what you’ve been doing all these months?”

   “I wanted her to have a monument, judge.” Tim furtively wiped
   away the moisture in his eyes. “She done a lot for me; that’s
   all I could do for her now.”

    (1908)


                            LOVE IN A NAME

   James Hargreaves, sitting alone there in his little house
   in Yorkshire, finding that he could not get enough from the
   spinners of cotton to supply his wants as a weaver, cast about
   for a way to spin faster. After many weary days, and weeks,
   and months, he found out a method by which he could spin eight
   threads in the same time that one had previously been spun; and
   being asked for a name for the instrument, he looked lovingly
   upon his wife, and said: “We’ll call it Jenny”; and the modest
   Jenny has come down to posterity, and will go to remotest
   generations with the name of the “Spinning Jenny.”--GEORGE
   DAWSON.

    (1909)


                              LOVE IN MAN

   That trained horse that I saw in the World’s Fair, in seven
   years had learned twenty tricks. But that horse loved only one
   person, the master,/ and rushed with open her cheeks, and she
   said, “You must love in the animal world is a little tiny stream
   that trickles. Love in man is an ocean that rolls like the sea.
   Let us bow the forehead and smite upon the breast, and confess
   that man’s infinite capacity for love tells us he was made in
   the image of God.” (Text.)--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1910)


                          LOVE INDESTRUCTIBLE

   Asbestos is the most extraordinary of all minerals. It is of the
   nature of alabaster, but it may be drawn out into fine silken
   threads. It is indissoluble in water and unconsumed in fire.
   An asbestos handkerchief was presented to the Royal Society of
   England. It was thrown into an intensely hot fire and lost but
   two drams of its weight, and when thus heated was laid on white
   paper and did not burn it. Love is like asbestos. The waves of
   sorrow will not wash it away. The flames of tribulation will not
   burn it up. It is eternal and immortal. (Text.)

    (1911)


                           LOVE INESCAPABLE

James Freeman Clarke, on his seventy-eighth birthday, wrote this
significant bit of verse:

    Be happy now and ever
    That from the love divine no power the soul shall sever:
    For not our feeble nor our stormy past,
    Nor shadows from the future backward cast;
      Not all the gulfs of evil far below,
    Nor mountain-peaks of good which soar on high
    Into the unstained sky,
      Nor any power the universe can know;
    Not the vast laws to whose control are given
      The blades of grass just springing from the sod,
    And stars within the unsounded depths of heaven--
      Can touch the spirit hid with Christ in God.
    For nought that He has made, below, above,
    Can part us from His love.

    (1912)


                        LOVE, INTERPRETATION BY

   A story is told of an artist who painted the picture of the
   Crucifixion. When it was completed, he called in a lady friend
   to see it, and pulling the curtain aside, withdrew into the
   shade that he might see the effect on her face. He saw the
   tears running down her cheeks, and she said, “You must love Him
   to paint Him like that.” Her words touched his heart and he
   replied, “I hope I do, but as I love Him more I will paint Him
   better.”

    (1913)


                         LOVE IS GOD’S NATURE

   Why does this beautiful girl, that once was the center of
   attraction, in every reception, now hang over the cradle, refuse
   honors and give herself by day and by night to this little babe
   that puts helpless arms around the neck, that once flashed with
   jewels? We can only say that the mother is built that way. Why
   do robins sing? Why does the sunbeam warm? Why does summer ripen
   purple clusters? Why is a rose red? And a rainbow beautiful?
   When we can answer, we may be able to say why God loves His weak
   and sinful children. He loves them because it is His nature to
   love them.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1914)


                         LOVE-LETTER, ANCIENT

   We possess many love-songs of the old Egyptians, but a genuine
   love-letter had not heretofore been found. Some years ago in
   Chaldea there was a love-letter found, written on clay. Tho the
   letter has much formality for such a missive, the reader can
   feel the tenderness that lies between its lines. The document
   was produced, we should say, in the year 2200 B.C., and
   was found in Sippara, the Biblical Sepharvani. Apparently the
   lady lived there, while her beloved was a resident of Babylon.
   The letter reads:

   “To the lady, Kasbuya (little ewe) says Gimil Marduk (the
   favorite of Merodach) this: May the sun god of Marduk afford you
   eternal life. I write wishing that I may know how your health
   is. Oh, send me a message about it. I live in Babylon and have
   not seen you, and for this reason I am very anxious. Send me a
   message that will tell me when you will come to me, so that I
   may be happy. Come in Marchesvan. May you live long for my sake.”

    (1915)


                          LOVE MAKES PATIENT

   Ellen sat at the piano practising. The big clock in the corner
   was slowly ticking away the seconds, and the hands pointed to
   half-past ten.

   “Oh, dear!” sighed Ellen. “A whole half hour more; and the
   clock seems to move more slowly than usual. How I hate this
   everlasting practising! I wish there were no such things as
   pianos in the world!”

   “Why, Ellen!” said mama, who had entered the room in time to
   hear the last sentence. “A year ago you were coaxing father to
   buy you a piano. Are you growing tired of it so soon?”

   The little girl’s face flushed. “I did not know it was such hard
   work, mama; and I can’t bear to stay in the house a whole hour
   this bright morning, just drumming at exercises. I would like to
   play pretty pieces.”

   “You must be patient, dear,” answered her mother. “The pretty
   pieces will come in time. Think how delightful it will be, by
   and by, to entertain father when he comes home tired from the
   office! You know how he loves music. So keep up your courage,
   little daughter, for father’s sake.”

   The words lingered in the child’s memory. “For father’s sake,”
   she would say to herself when the hours seemed long. And love
   gave her patience.

Love always brings patience. Life’s exercises are often hard and
unmusical. But, little by little, they are preparing us for the
heavenly harmonies above.

    (1916)


                            LOVE OF CHRIST

   After Lafayette’s devoted service to our country, he was
   equally devoted to the cause of liberty in France, helping
   with wise and unselfish service. But he was opposed bitterly
   by the extremists, and driven by them out of the country, and
   was imprisoned by the Emperor of Austria for five years in a
   loathsome dungeon at Olmutz. All Europe was moved to get him
   released, and his wife pleaded with ruler after ruler, and
   at length was permitted to share his dungeon, which she did
   for about two years. His life was despaired of, but Napoleon
   Bonaparte compelled his release. Our Lord shares the sinner’s
   dungeon, and spares no pain for his release. (Text.)

    (1917)


                             LOVE OWNS ALL

    We can not go so far
      That home is out of sight;
    The morn, the evening star,
      Will say, “Good-day!” “Good-night!”
    The heart that loves will never be alone;
    All earth, all heaven it reckons as its own.

    (1918)


                            LOVE, PRACTICAL

   A dutiful son of his widowed mother once said, “I love my
   mother with all my strength.” “How is that?” he was asked. Said
   he, “I’ll tell you. We live in a tenement, on the top floor
   four flights up, with no elevator; and my mother being busy, I
   carry up the coal in a scuttle, and I tell you, it takes all my
   strength to do it.” (Text.)

    (1919)


                          LOVE, PRESERVATIVE

   Botanists tell us that strongly scented plants are of longer
   duration than those destitute of smell.

   This is as true in the gardens of soul as in the gardens of
   nature. Lives fragrant with helpfulness endure. Those wanting in
   the aroma of love, die. (Text.)--VYRNWY MORGAN, “The
   Cambro-American Pulpit.”

    (1920)


                      LOVE RATHER THAN KNOWLEDGE

   “Papa,” said the son of Bishop Berkeley, “what is the meaning of
   the words ‘cherubim’ and ‘seraphim’ in the Bible?” “Cherubim,”
   replied his father, “is a Hebrew word signifying knowledge;
   seraphim is another word of the same language, and signifies
   flame; whence it is supposed that the cherubim are angels who
   excel in knowledge, and that the seraphim are angels who excel
   in loving God.” “I hope, then,” said the little boy, “when I die
   I shall be a seraph; for I would rather love God than know all
   things.”

The child had the right sentiment, if not the right theology.

    (1921)


                            LOVE RECLAIMING

   Dr. Felix Adler has brought to light an old legend of two
   brothers who lived and played together. At last one of them
   left home and got into evil ways, and finally was, by an evil
   magician, changed into a wolf. For long the bereaved brother
   sought the wanderer, and one day returning home through the
   woods, he was set on by a wolf, and by the might of his love
   under the spell of that continued gaze the features of the wolf
   began to disappear, until at length the brother was restored to
   his senses and to his home.

    (1922)


   =Love, Rewards of=--See RESIGNATION.


                         LOVE, THE LANGUAGE OF

   When William Duncan went among the Alaskan Indians to convert
   them to Christianity, he won them first by his kindness. He
   visited them, helped them with simple advice, and administered
   to their ailments from his medicine-chest. Long before he could
   make himself understood in words he spoke intelligibly in his
   works. They understood the language of his love and sympathy and
   kindness. By relieving their suffering he found a way at length
   to relieve their sins, in the gospel that he learned to utter in
   his message to them from the Word of God.

There is a gospel without words, as there is music without words; and
he is the real linguist that can talk from the heart to the heart by a
vibrant love.

    (1923)


                         LOVE THE WORLD’S NEED

Ella Wheeler Wilcox, in the _Century Magazine_, writes thus of the
world’s need:

    Oh, love is the need of the world! Down under its pride of power,
    Down under its lust of greed, for the joys that last but an hour,
    There lies forever its need.
    For love is the law and the creed;
    And love is the aim and the goal
    Of life, from the man to the mole.
    The need of the world is love.

    (1924)


                            LOVE UPLIFTING

   Jacob Riis, in “The Making of an American,” brings from his
   Danish homeland a most beautiful and significant phrase. There
   is scant sunlight over there in the long, cold winters, and
   it is not easy to make plants grow. Yet the poor have their
   window-boxes and winter blossoms, nevertheless, and their tender
   winter lesson. For when they speak of their flowers they do not
   say that they have been grown; instead, with finest insight,
   they say that they have been “loved up.”

Almost any man can be “loved up.” So it is with the child, the waif of
society.

    (1925)


                      LOVE’S ACCEPTABLE OFFERING

   One of the family was a little lad who was weak-minded, and him
   the father and mother specially loved. Yet there was little
   response to their affection. But one day, when the other
   children were gathering flowers and bringing them to their
   parents, the poor little lad gathered a bundle of dry sticks and
   brought them to his father. “I valued those sticks,” said the
   father afterward, “far more than the fairest flowers.” We are
   not all equally gifted--some can bring lovely flowers to God’s
   service and honor; others can only gather dry sticks. But even
   the “cup of cold water” is accepted by Him. (Text.)

    (1926)


                          LOVE’S CAREFULNESS

    If I knew that a word of mine,
    A word not kind and true,
      Might leave its trace
      On a loved one’s face,
    I’d never speak harshly, would you?

    If I knew the light of a smile
    Might linger the whole day through
      And brighten some heart
      With a heavier part,
    I wouldn’t withhold it, would you?

    --UNIDENTIFIED.

    (1927)


                          LOVE’S COMPLETENESS

That God’s love is without measure or limit is illustrated in the
following incident:

   In the home of a friend one day, as he reclined on the lounge
   opposite, and I in an easy chair, we were having a pleasant chat
   until dinner was called, when his little boy, named Neil, about
   three or four years old, came in. He went to his father’s side,
   and I heard him whisper, “Papa, get up and show Mr. Shields how
   much you love me.” I knew at once there was a secret between
   them, as it is fitting there should be between father and child,
   and that it was a secret in which the child rejoiced.

   His father smiled, and said, “Oh, run away, Neil, and play; we
   are busy talking, and Mr. Shields knows I love you.” “Yes,” said
   the little fellow, “but I want you to show him how much.”

   Again and again the father tried to put him off, but the child
   persisted in his plea that the visitor be shown “how much” the
   father loved.

   At length the father yielded, and as he stood, the child stood
   between us, and, holding up his index-finger, with a glance
   first at his father, and then at me, he said, “Now you watch,
   till you see how much my papa loves me.”

   His father was a tall and splendidly proportioned man. First
   he partially extended one arm, but the child exclaimed, “No,
   more than that.” Then the other arm was extended similarly,
   but the little fellow was not content, and demanded, “More than
   that.” Then one after the other both arms were outstretched
   to the full, only the fingers remaining closed. But still the
   child insisted, “More than that.” Then, in response to his
   repeated demands, as he playfully stamped his little foot and
   clapped his hands and cried, “No! No! It’s more than that!” One
   finger after another on either hand was extended, until his
   father’s arms were opened to their utmost reach, and to each was
   added the full hand-breadth. Then the child turned to me, and,
   gleefully clapping his hands, exclaimed, “See? That’s how much
   papa loves me.” Than he ran off to his play content.--C. C.
   SHIELDS.

    (1928)


                            LOVING ENEMIES

   Here is one more illustration of a moral power that occasionally
   came out of Confucianism. Ieyasu, the founder of the Shogunate,
   is regarded as perhaps the greatest hero Japan has produced.
   In his wars, his enemy, Mitsunari, was defeated, and fearing
   the revenge of Ieyasu’s seven generals, he sent to Ieyasu for
   pardon. The desired forgiveness was immediately granted, but
   the seven generals were indignant that such an enemy should
   escape death, and remonstrated with Ieyasu. The proverb he
   quoted to them shows how near the best hearts in all ages are
   to Christ’s “Love your enemies.” His reply was: “Even a hunter
   will have pity on a distrest bird when it seeks refuge in his
   bosom.”--JOHN H. DE FOREST, “Sunrise in the Sunrise
   Kingdom.”

    (1929)


                                LOYALTY

   On the deck of the _Republic_ (January, 1909), when the
   passengers had all departed, when Captain Sealby was left alone
   with his men, with his ship, he stood before them. His voice
   shook a little.

   “Men of the _Republic_,” he said, “I am proud of you. You
   have acquitted yourselves like men. I look upon no coward. The
   darkness is drawing on”--it was then four o’clock Saturday
   afternoon--“and the passengers are gone. You have now the right
   to leave this vessel. She may sink; she may not--I can not say.
   But you have done your duty; the boats are at your disposal--”

   “How about you, captain?” interrupted a voice.

   “I shall stand by the ship,” was the reply.

   And then, in chorus, came a great shout:

   “And we’ll stand by with you, captain.”

   So they did, until, later in the evening, the captain compelled
   all but fifty men to leave the vessel.

    (1930)

       *       *       *       *       *

The story of a little Boer boy who refused to betray his friends
even on the threat of death, is told by Major Seely, M.P., as an
illustration of deeply-rooted love of freedom and of country. It
happened during the Boer war:

   “I was asked,” said Major Seely, “to get some volunteers and try
   to capture a commandant at a place some twenty miles away. I
   got the men readily, and we set out. It was a rather desperate
   enterprise, but we got there all right. The Boer general had
   got away, but where had he gone? It was even a question of the
   general catching us, and not we catching the general. We rode
   down to the farmhouse, and there we saw a good-looking Boer
   boy and some yeomen. I asked the boy if the commandant had
   been there, and he said in Dutch, taken by surprize, ‘Yes.’
   ‘Where has he gone?’ I said, and the boy became suspicious. He
   answered, ‘I will not say.’

   “I decided to do a thing for which I hope I may be forgiven,
   because my men’s lives were in danger. I threatened the boy with
   death if he would not disclose the whereabouts of the general.
   He still refused, and I put him against a wall, and said I
   would have him shot. At the same time I whispered to my men,
   ‘For heaven’s sake, don’t shoot.’ The boy still refused, altho
   I could see he believed I was going to have him shot. I ordered
   the men to ‘Aim.’ Every rifle was leveled at the boy.

   “‘Now,’ I said, ‘before I give the word, which way has the
   general gone?’ I remember the look in the boy’s face--a look
   such as I have never seen but once. He was transfigured before
   me. Something greater almost than anything human shone from his
   eyes. He threw back his head, and said in Dutch, ‘I will not
   say.’ There was nothing for it but to shake hands with the boy
   and go away.”--_Singapore Straits Budget._

    (1931)

       *       *       *       *       *

   I remember once taking a walk by the river near where the falls
   of Niagara are, and I noticed a remarkable figure walking along
   the river bank. When he came a little closer, I saw he was
   wearing a kilt; when he came a little nearer still, I saw that
   he was drest exactly like a Highland soldier. When he came quite
   near, I said to him, “What are you doing here?” “Why should I
   not be here?” he said. “Don’t you know this is British soil?
   When you cross the river you come into Canada.” This soldier was
   thousands of miles from England, and yet he was in the kingdom
   of England.

Wherever there is an English heart beating loyal to the ruler of
Britain, there is England. Wherever there is a man whose heart is
loyal to the King of the kingdom of God, the kingdom of God is within
him.--HENRY DRUMMOND.

    (1932)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A young girl came to headquarters faint and exhausted, her
   body covered with marks of cruel beatings administered by her
   father and brother. It was their way of convincing her that
   she must accept the offer of her former employer to give her
   more than twice the wages that she had received before the
   shirt-waist strike in New York, 1909, and to send an automobile
   to take her to and from work if she would return to her former
   position. That she could decline an offer of such magnificence
   was conclusive proof to them that a girl is too stupid to make
   her own decisions; so they proceeded to decide for her and to
   communicate their decision in their own vigorous fashion.

   “Will you go?” asked the little group surrounding her.

   “Never till I die,” was the unfaltering response, “unless
   the other girls be taken back, and unless we may stay by the
   union. To that did not we all pledge our word?” “But,” she
   added wearily, “I think they will kill me. See! Here it is that
   yesterday they pulled out so much of my hair. To-day, again,
   they beat me. To-morrow, surely, they will kill me. I can not
   bear more.”

   When offered a place of safety and protection, she hesitated for
   a little time, then said, “My mother, she is away at work. Not
   to find me when she comes home at evening--that would trouble
   her. I must go home to her.”

   The will which could not be conquered by force was coupled with
   loyalty, with love, no less unconquerable. The friend who had
   offered her protection understood, for she, too, was a woman.

   Shall the stone and mortar and machinery of factories or the
   bank accounts of their owners be ranked as assets of greater
   value to the nation than the life, the health, the welfare, of
   such womanhood?--_The World To-day._

    (1933)


                          LOYALTY, SPIRIT OF

   The spirit that leads to lying for the sake of a member of the
   clique or gang has been contemptuously called “honor among
   thieves.” Honor it is rightly styled. Many tests have shown
   that it is indeed the spirit of loyalty that occasions it. Such
   a lie is the lie heroic. Many a boy will persist in it and
   take a punishment cheerfully rather than betray his chum. The
   lie, of course, is wrong; but the spirit which prompts it is
   right--indeed, is at the very core of moral character. Instead
   of asking boy or girl to tell of the misdeeds of another, the
   one who has glimpsed God’s plan for the shaping of a character
   will ask the culprit to confess and save his comrades from
   suspicion. The boy who will lie and take a thrashing to save his
   friend will confess and take the penalty just as quickly, if the
   spirit of honor is fostered.

   The spirit of hero worship is strong in both sexes at this time.
   Each one has his concrete ideal. Among the boys it may be the
   pugilist, the border outlaw, the soldier, or the statesman, but
   he is surely of the virile and aggressive type. Unconsciously
   the youth is selecting during these crucial years the models
   after whom his life is to be shaped.--E. P. ST. JOHN,
   _Sunday-school Times_.

    (1934)


                           LOYALTY TO CHRIST

In “Gloria Christi” we read this statement concerning some early
martyrs of Madagascar:

   In 1849 nineteen Christians, four of them from the highest
   nobility and all of good birth, were condemned to die.
   Fifteen were ordered to be hurled to death over the cliffs of
   Ampamarinana, a wall of rock one hundred and fifty feet high,
   with a rocky ravine below. The queen looked at the sight from
   her palace windows. Idols were placed before the Christians as
   they hung suspended by a rope in mid-air over the cliff, and
   each was asked in turn, “Will you worship this god?” As they
   refused, the rope was cut, and the victim fell into the abyss.

    (1935)


   =Loyalty to Race=--See RACE LOYALTY.


                         LOYALTY TO THE CHURCH

President William McKinley was a member of the Sunday-school from the
time that he became old enough to attend. He was converted and joined
the Church before he was sixteen, and from that day maintained his
Christian character through all the vicissitudes of his vigorous and
busy life.

   After the war he was admitted to the bar, and removed to Canton,
   Ohio. One of the first things he attended to was to call on the
   minister of his chosen church, present his church credentials,
   and, like the soldier he was, ask for assignment to duty. He was
   given a class in the Sunday-school, and was later elected its
   superintendent. It was not beneath his dignity to devote his
   life to the training of the young.

    (1936)

   See EVANGELISM, UNHERALDED.


                         LUBRICATION EFFECTIVE

   An old Quaker was once visited by a garrulous neighbor, who
   complained that he had the worst servants in the world, and
   everybody seemed to conspire to make him miserable.

   “My dear friend,” said the Quaker, “let me advise you to oil
   yourself a little.”

   “What do you mean?” said the irritated old gentleman.

   “Well,” said the Quaker, “I had a door in my house some time
   ago that was always creaking on its hinges, and I found that
   everybody avoided it, and altho it was the nearest way to most
   of the rooms, yet they went round some other way. So I just
   got some oil, and after a few applications it opened and shut
   without a creak or a jar, and now everybody just goes to that
   door and uses the old passage.”

Just oil yourself a little with the oil of kindness. Occasionally
praise your servants for something they do well. Encourage your
children more than you scold them, and you will be surprized to find
that a little sunshine will wear out a lot of fog, and a little
molasses is better than a great deal of vinegar.

    (1937)


   =Luck=--See DISCOVERY, FORTUNATE.


   =Lunacy Undiscovered=--See HEADS, LOSING.


                              LUMINOSITY

Our characters ought to be like the luminous paint mentioned below and
continue to shine in the night of misfortune and disaster just the same.

   You have probably seen luminous paints applied to the surfaces
   of the match-boxes that are permanently fixt on the walls of a
   room. During their exposure to the light in the daytime, these
   paints are so affected that they will continue to shine during
   the greater part of the night, altho there is no other light in
   the room. One coming into the room can, therefore, readily see
   where the match-box is.--EDWIN J. HOUSTON, Ph.D., “The
   Wonder Book of Light.”

    (1938)


                                 LYING

   Admiral Dewey was a great stickler for truth. He has stated of
   himself, “There is nothing that I detest so much in a man as
   lying. I don’t think a man ever gained anything by telling a
   lie.” A blue-jacket says of him, “We had not been at sea long
   with him before we got next to how he despised a liar.” One of
   the men was brought before Dewey, and told of being “sunstruck.”
   “You are lying, my man,” said Dewey. “You were very drunk last
   night. I don’t expect to find total abstinence, but I do expect
   to be told the truth. Had you told me candidly that you had
   taken a drop too much on your liberty, you would have gone free.
   For lying, you get ten days in irons.”--JAMES T. WHITE,
   “Character Lessons.”

    (1939)

   See LOYALTY, SPIRIT OF.


                             LYING AROUND

   “Yes, he lied about it. I’m sure of that, and can prove it.”

   That’s a pretty serious matter, to call a man a liar. Doubly
   serious if you can prove it on him. It is very, very bad to be
   lying about anything whatsoever.

   But I’m convinced that lying around is almost as bad as lying
   about. I said, “You were not out at church yesterday. What were
   you doing?”

   “I was just lying around.” An excuse--offered as a reason--that
   I’ve heard scores of times.

   Late to get out of bed Sunday morning. A very late breakfast.
   Everything starts behind, and never catches up. The men are
   lying around unshaved, unbathed, undrest. They look bad, and
   probably feel worse. An unclean skin and dirty clothes are not
   good to rest in.

   Maybe the women are lying around with hair unbrushed, and
   dresses and aprons showing the stains of week-day work. Rather
   frowsy. If they don’t feel any better than they look, they are
   some points below normal.

   Just lying around, not at church, not fit to be seen, not
   feeling much respect for oneself. Pretty low down, not much
   above the dirt level. Doing no good, getting no good out of the
   blest day.

   Does plain lying about things hurt one more than this lying
   around on Sunday? It makes one almost trifling.

   Don’t do it. On Sunday morning, get up, wash up, dress up,
   shave up, shine up, go up to church, think up toward God and
   the highest and best. The day will be worth much more to you.
   You’ll feel better Monday morning, better rested, better fitted
   for the work of the new week. Quit lying around, and try
   it.--_Presbyterian Advance._

    (1940)


                            LYING PUNISHED

   Some time ago in a case in New York a man gave false evidence
   under oath and upon that evidence the point at issue was sent to
   a referee and costs amounting to $1,759 were incurred. A certain
   judge to whom these facts became known fined the perjured man
   the full amount of the costs and directed that when the fine
   was paid it should be turned over to the aggrieved party. This
   action has recently been affirmed by the United States Court of
   Appeals.

“This is hailed as a rebuke to a growing evil, that of lying under
oath and nothing being thought of it if one can avoid detection or any
civil consequences. The home, the school, the Church and the State
should unite and compel greater attention to the dishonor of lying,
and business concerns should be held strictly to account wherever
misrepresentation or lying form a part of the business methods. Decent
men should refuse to trade with the man who scolds his clerks for
not making a sale and declares the failure was due to not lying hard
enough.”

    (1941)




                                   M


                         MACHINE, AN ACCURATE

   A fine clock, reminding a community of the lapse of time and of
   the value of the fleeting minutes and hours, is an object of
   much public interest. Some clocks have a particular historic
   interest due to their long and accurate service in behalf of a
   hurrying and often heedless humanity. A number of invited guests
   were recently privileged to be present one night in Strasburg
   Cathedral to observe the mechanism of the famous clock. For the
   first time since its construction in 1842, the machinery was
   called upon to indicate the first leap-year of a century, after
   an eight-year interval. At astronomical midnight the levers
   and trains of wheels began to move, the movable feasts of the
   year took their respective places and the admirable mechanism,
   calculated to indicate in perpetuity all the changes of the
   calendar, continued its regular movement. The man who can
   construct a great clock like that is indeed a mechanical genius.

    (1942)


   =Machine-shop Equipment=--See MODERNITY.


                           MACHINE TESTIMONY

In an article in the _Evening Post_ on “Manners Over the Wire,”
the writer says:

   Some little thing may reform an age, the adage runs, and so
   perhaps the phonograph recording device, which was installed
   recently in the Copenhagen telephone exchange to check the
   ill-natured remarks of subscribers to central, by convicting
   offenders out of their own mouths, may bring about a revolution
   in the Danish city’s manners.

   Probably one of the first thoughts of the man who invented the
   telephone, and knew that he could project sound over distance,
   was that now he could tell his stronger neighbor his candid
   opinion without risking the dog and a possible thrashing; one
   of his second thoughts was to put his new-found power into
   practise. And who, after all, should be the object of most of
   the exasperated remarks, shading from complaint to embroidered
   profanity, but central herself?

   This Copenhagen found out, and set herself to remedy. University
   professors there who discover another flaw in Dr. Cook’s records
   and ring up the rector right away, only to find that the wire
   is busy because half a dozen colleagues have similar messages,
   must not abuse central; the connection will be switched at once
   to the phonograph, which has no feelings and is an unprejudiced
   witness in court. Testimony of as a will recorded thus was
   recently held valid in Russia; and the notaries will invent
   another form: “Appeared before me this day Phonograph No. 123,
   said phonograph being turned on, deposed, etc. ... Polonius,
   notary; Rosencrantz and Guildenstern, witnesses.” Polonius’
   advice, “Give thy thoughts no tongue,” holds good, and better
   for the Danes than in the times when, in language of to-day, the
   party at Elsinore had no ’phone.

    (1943)


   =Machine versus Purpose=--See PURPOSE DISCERNED.


   =Machine Work=--See MONOTONY.


   =Machinery, Excess of=--See MASTER HAND LACKING.


                              MAGNANIMITY

   The exercise of magnanimity and charity was as natural to
   General Grant as breathing; and he demonstrated on this occasion
   that the hand that wielded the sword was moved by kindness as
   well as by patriotism. The prisoners of war, who so long lived
   in hunger, now received abundant rations. So much kindness was
   shown them that when the Union troops entered the city, both
   sides “fraternized as if they had been fighting for the same
   cause.” And when the Confederates passed out of town between two
   lines of Federal soldiers, the scene was solemn and pathetic.
   Under instructions from General Grant, not a cheer or a word
   came from the conquerors that would humiliate the fallen foe or
   give them pain.--NICHOLAS SMITH, “Grant, the Man of
   Mystery.”

    (1944)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Gen. Fitzhugh Lee witnessed the memorable meeting between
   his uncle, Gen. Robert E. Lee, and Grant, and he frequently
   exprest his appreciation of the magnanimity displayed by the
   victorious commander on that occasion. The fact that General
   Grant refrained from asking for Gen. Robert E. Lee’s sword made
   a lasting impression on Fitzhugh Lee, who subsequently said:
   “General Grant not only refrained from demanding my uncle’s
   sword, as is customary, but he actually apologized to General
   Lee for not having his own sword on at the time.” (Text.)

    (1945)

   See GOOD FOR EVIL.


   =Magnanimity, A Boy’s=--See VICARIOUS SACRIFICE.


   =Magnanimity, A Nation’s=--See AMERICA’S ATTITUDE.


                      MAGNANIMITY, UNDISCIPLINED

   Precipitancy of judgment and heat of temper are responsible for
   all the errors of Walter Savage Landor’s life. To recount these
   errors is neither wise, necessary, nor generous. One thing,
   however, is noticeable, that in every case the difficulties
   which he created for himself arose from a sort of undisciplined
   magnanimity of nature, a belief in impracticable ideals, a
   radical inability to adapt himself to the common convictions
   of life. He sinned against himself in a hundred instances, but
   against others never. His generosity was extreme and incessant.
   In his enormous agricultural experiments at Llanthony he
   squandered seventy thousand pounds in five years--J. W.
   DAWSON, “Makers of English Prose.”

    (1946)


                               MAGNETISM

   The use of powerful electromagnets for lifting pieces of iron
   in foundries is increasing. In _The American Machinist_,
   E. F. Lake gives some particulars of recent applications of
   electromagnetism to lifting, and discusses the economies
   effected thereby. He says:

   “At the West Allis works of the Allis-Chalmers Company, lifting
   magnets are prest into service for saving the small pieces and
   even minute particles of iron and steel which have heretofore
   been allowed to go to waste without thought of the possibility
   of recovery.

   “This is done periodically by hitching the magnets to
   traveling-cranes and allowing them to sweep over every inch of
   ground area, both in and around the works. It is a never-failing
   source of wonder to the shops’ management how much lost metal
   the magnets can find.” (Text.)

    (1947)


   =Magnificence=--See ICE BEAUTY.


                      MAGNIFYING A SACRED OFFICE

   Increase Mather, in a sermon entitled “Be Very Courageous,”
   tells the story: “It has been reported that a minister,
   preaching to the Earl of Stratford, then lord deputy of Ireland,
   faithfully reproved some corruptions which that governor was
   known to be guilty of, but at which he was displeased; and the
   next day, in a great passion, he sent for the minister, and
   began his discourse thus: ‘Yesterday, when you were before
   me, you said such and such things.’ The minister replied to
   him: ‘You are mistaken, sir; I was not before you yesterday. I
   confess I am before your excellency to-day, but you were before
   me yesterday. You represent the kingdom; but yesterday I was
   made representative of the Almighty God, who is infinitely
   above the greatest kings on earth.’ Upon that, the earl was so
   affected as to dismiss the minister without saying anything more
   to him.” Here was a man who magnified his office, who spoke with
   authority, and not as the scribes.--_Christian Register._

    (1948)


   =Magnifying Objects=--See SCIENCE, IMPROVEMENTS BY.


   =Mail, Handling=--See CARE IN PERFORMING DUTIES.


   =Main Objects versus Incidentals=--See TASKS, THE REAL.


   =Majority Not Always Right=--See CONVICTION, UNYIELDING.


   =Majority-rule=--See JUSTICE BY MAJORITY; TACT.


                             MAKE-BELIEVE

If all difference could be atoned as easily as that described in this
extract from the _Popular Magazine_, much bloodshed would be saved:

   Not long ago a Paris journalist, who had by some criticism
   offended a politician, received from him the following letter:

   “Sir--One does not send a challenge to a bandit of your species:
   one simply administers a cuff on the ears. Therefore, I hereby
   cuff both your ears. Be grateful to me for not having recourse
   to weapons.

    “Yours truly, ----”

   The journalist answered:

   “My Dear Sir and Adversary--I thank you, according to your
   wish, for having sent me cuffs by post, instead of slaughtering
   me with weapons. Cuffed by post, I respond by dispatching you
   by post six bullets in the head. I kill you by letter. Please
   consider yourself dead from the first line of this epistle.

   “With a respectful salutation to your corpse, I am,

    “Very truly yours, ----.”

The intent to kill is present. Is not that reckoned in morals as bad as
the overt act? (Text.)

    (1949)


   =Malaria, Stamping Out=--See IMMUNITY FROM DISEASE.


   =Malice=--See MODESTY.


   =Malingery=--See SHAM.


                            MAMMON WORSHIP

   At Nashville, Tenn., there recently died an eccentric old lady,
   known in the neighborhood as a miser of the most pronounced
   type, tho possessing multiplied thousands. After her death the
   premises were searched for the money, known to be hidden in
   various places about the house. She had no confidence in banks,
   and therefore employed this method of concealing her treasures.
   For seventeen years she never left her home, lest some one get
   her money. Was ever a life more completely misspent? The joy
   she might have had by helping others, she missed because of her
   miserly disposition. She preferred to be poor--really poor--in
   the midst of her gold. She starved her soul that she might
   worship at the shrine of Mammon.--_The Gospel Messenger._

    (1950)


                             MAN A CREATOR

   The fork, the knife, the graver, the spade, they are merely
   steel fingers, iron hands, accumulating and prolonging the
   energy of those members. The rudder which the hand holds, it is
   in effect that hand itself, enlarged, and shielded from the wash
   of the waves. The telescope, with its wondrous space-penetrating
   power, the microscope, with its clear and searching lens,
   in which seems almost an image of Omniscience, are yet only
   adjutants and servitors to the eye, that more marvelous
   instrument which no hand can fashion. The soul of man, invisible
   itself, controls the eye. It creates the telescope, to be its
   assistant. The locomotive steam-engine, with its connected
   trains of cars, whose tread is like an earthquake traversing
   the surface, whose rush outruns in noise and power the plunge
   of the cataract--the soul has created that as a servant to the
   body, to move this on its errands, and to carry its burdens.
   The steamship flashing through night and storm, trampling the
   riotous waves beneath it, and drowning the strife and uproar
   of the winds, by its more measured and peremptory stroke, is
   a similar instrument sent forth on the seas. Each began in a
   thought. Each was born of the soul. And that which produced them
   has the power to work with them, for any effects.--RICHARD
   S. STORRS.

    (1951)


                           MAN A TIMEKEEPER

There are many ways in which a man is like a watch, as this curious
epitaph shows, which can be seen in the churchyard at Lydford,
Devonshire, England:

                  Here lies in a horizontal position
                          The outside case of
                     George Routledge, watchmaker.
              Integrity was the main-spring and prudence
             the regulator of all the actions of his life;
                     Humane, generous and liberal,
          His hand never stopt till he had relieved distress;
   So nicely regulated were his movements that he never went wrong,
      Except when set a-going by people who did not know his key;

               Even then he was easily set right again.
            He had the art of disposing of his time so well
    That his hours glided away in one continued round of pleasure.
         Till, in an unlucky moment, his pulse stopt beating.
                  He ran down Nov. 14, 1801, aged 57,
             In hopes of being taken in hand by his Maker,
        Thoroughly cleaned, repaired, wound up and set a-going,
           In the world to come, when time shall be no more.

    (1952)


                            MAN AS A TEMPLE

      My God, I heard this day
    That none doth build a stately habitation
      But he that means to dwell therein.
      What house more stately hath there been
    Or can be, than is man? To whose creation
      All things are in decay.

      Since then, my God, Thou hast
    So brave a palace built, O dwell in it,
      That it may dwell with Thee at last!
    Till Thou afford us so much wit
      That, as the world serve us, we may serve Thee,
      And both Thy servants be. (Text.)

    --GEORGE HERBERT.

    (1953)


                              MAN GODLIKE

An unidentified writer here points out the greatness of man even tho
often overthrown:

    Swarming across the earthly crust,
    Delving deep in the yellow dust,
    Raising his ant-hills here and there,
    Scoring the soil for his humble fare,
    Braving the sea in his tiny boat--
    Tireless he struggles, this human mote.

    Tempests scatter his ant-hills wide,
    Vainly he braves the boiling tide,
    Fire will ruin his busy mart,
    Famine stilleth his throbbing heart,
    Trembles the earth and prone he falls,
    Crusht and tombed by his pigmy walls.

    Heir of the kingdom ’neath the skies,
    Often he falls, yet falls to rise.
    Stumbling, bleeding, beaten back,
    Holding still to the upward track;
    Playing his part in creation’s plan,
    Godlike in image--this is man!

    (1954)


   =Man Imitating Nature=--See IMITATION OF NATURE.


                          MAN INDESTRUCTIBLE

   Some time ago a Philadelphia anatomist announced to the world
   that the brain of Walt Whitman, through the carelessness of a
   hospital employee, had been lost to science. The jar that held
   the poet’s brain fell to the floor and was broken, so that not
   even the fragments of the organ were saved. Well, let the poet’s
   brain be shattered, if you will; the poet himself can not be
   touched. The flaming star-wheels can not crush him, the maddened
   oceans can not engulf him, the black caves of night can not hide
   him, the scorching flames of hell can not destroy him. Man is a
   spark of divinity the image of deity, an “emotion of God flashed
   into time.”--F. F. SHANNON.

    (1955)


                         MAN MADE FOR ETERNITY

   You can tell the difference between sea and land birds by the
   length and strength of their wings. The wings of the former are
   intended for long and sustained action in their sweep along the
   surface of the great ocean.

Man’s soul, in a similar manner, is not intended for this material
world, but has long and strong wings of hope and affection wherewith
to span the ocean of eternity.--VYRNWY MORGAN, “The Cambro-American
Pulpit.”

    (1956)


   =Man Not a Puppet=--See MASTERY OF CIRCUMSTANCES.


   =Man, Original=--See ORIGINALITY OF MAN.


                         MAN POSSESSING NATURE

Thomas Traherne, a poet, whose worth was discovered only after he was
dead, is the author of the following:

    The orb of light in its wide circuit moves,
      Corn for our food springs out of very mire.
    Our fuel grows in woods and groves;
      Choice herbs and flowers aspire
    To kiss our feet; beasts court our loves.
      How glorious is man’s fate!
    The laws of God, the works He did create,
    His ancient ways, are His and my estate.

    (1957)


                       MAN, SLOW DEVELOPMENT OF

Robert Loveman takes a wide view of man in this verse:

    A thousand years doth nature plan
    Upon the making of a man;
    She sweeps the generations through,
    To find the patient, strong, and true;
    She rends the surge of seven seas,
    Rearing an humble Socrates;
    She burns a hundred years of sun,
    Sealing the soul of Solomon.

    A thousand years doth nature plan
    Upon the making of a Man;
    She sees the ages dawn apace,
    Ere Moses rouse his shackled race,
    Or Homer or sweet Shakespeare sing,
    Beside his deep eternal spring;
    The centuries rise in reverence when
    Buddha doth come unto his men.

    A thousand years doth nature plan
    Upon the making of a man;
    She fills his heart with fire and faith,
    She leaves him loyal unto death;
    She lights his lustrous, loving eye
    With flashes of immortality;
    She adds one more undying name
    Upon the heated scroll of fame.

    --“Songs from a Georgia Garden.”

    (1958)


   =Man, Superiority of=--See SPEECH.


   =Man, The Manly=--See MANLINESS.


   =Man the Product of Many Elements=--See DIVERSE INFLUENCES.


                            MAN, VALUE OF A

   Years ago a Mr. Campbell, a British subject, was held a prisoner
   by Theodore, King of Abyssinia. England demanded his release,
   sending an army of ten thousand men who marched seven hundred
   miles, to Coomassie, and all at a cost of twenty-five million
   dollars--just to rescue a single man. (Text.)

    (1959)


   =Maneuvering by Birds=--See STRATAGEM BY BIRDS.


                                MANHOOD

We need not more machinery or institutions. What the world needs is
men, as Rudyard Kipling shows in this verse:

    The peace of shocked foundations flew
      Before his ribald questionings,
    He broke the oracles in two
      And bared the paltry wires and strings;
      He headed desert wanderings;
    He led his soul, his cause, his clan,
      A little from the ruck of things.
    Once on a time there was a man.

    Thrones, powers, dominions block the view
      With episodes and underlings;
    The meek historian deems them true,
      Nor heeds the song that Clio sings,
      The simple central truth that stings
    The mob to boo, the priest to ban,
      Things never yet created things.
    Once on a time there was a man. (Text.)

    --_Collier’s Weekly._

    (1960)


                          MANHOOD RECOGNIZED

Jesus saw in the meanest man the possibilities of character. This is
what Charles Wagner urges us to do in the following extract:

   Maintain toward the poor man and the infirm a courtesy, an
   attentiveness; find in your heart and in your love a sign that
   makes him recollect that he is a man. His misery is like a tomb
   in which his self-respect sleeps buried. It is something to
   respect this tomb, to approach it with piety, to care for it and
   to keep a flower growing there; but each of these attentions is
   addrest to one that is dead, shows that you accept his death,
   and that you confirm it. Do more and do better. Remember that
   it is a living man that lies under the dust, slowly amassed, of
   days of suffering. Breathe upon this dust, disengage the human
   form; speak to Lazarus and make him come forth from the shrouds
   that surround him, from the night that covers him. (Text.)--“The
   Gospel of Life.”

    (1961)


                             MANIFESTATION

   Just as creation is the revelation of God--His avowal, as a
   poet has said--so in the same way the external life of man,
   when it follows its normal development, is the translation, in
   signs and symbols, of what he bears at the bottom of his being.
   It would be easier to keep the sap from mounting, the flowers
   from opening, the leaves from tearing apart their coverings,
   than human nature from manifesting itself. It is this need
   that gives man his distinction as a social and communicative
   being.--Charles Wagner, “The Gospel of Life.”

    (1962)


                               MANLINESS

    The world has room for the manly man, with the spirit of manly
      cheer;
    The world delights in the man who smiles when his eyes keep back
      the tear;
    It loves the man who, when things go wrong, can take his place and
      stand
    With his face to the fight and his eyes to the light, and toil with
      a willing hand;
    The manly man is the country’s need, and the moment’s need,
      forsooth,
    With a heart that beats to the pulsing tread of the lilied leagues
      of truth;
    The world is his and it waits for him, and it leaps to hear the
      ring
    Of the blow he strikes and the wheels he turns and the hammers he
      dares to swing;
    It likes the forward look in his face, the poise of his noble head,
    And the onward lunge of his tireless will and the sweeps of his
      dauntless tread!
    Hurrah for the manly man who comes with sunlight on his face,
    And the strength to do and the will to dare and the courage to find
      his place!
    The world delights in the manly man, and the weak and evil flee
    When the manly man goes forth to hold his own on land or sea!
      (Text.)

    --_American Israelite._

    (1963)


   =Manner, The Orator’s=--See EARNESTNESS.


   =Manners=--See CIRCUMSTANCES, TAKING ADVANTAGE OF; DUAL CHARACTER;
      MACHINE TESTIMONY.


   =Manners, Teaching Bad=--See POLITENESS.


                          MAN’S AGE ON EARTH

Some scientists reason that the Falls of Niagara must have been formed
soon after the Glacial Epoch, and the time occupied in wearing the
rock back to the present position therefore furnishes a basis for
calculating the age of man on the earth, as he must have begun his
career since that epoch:

   In an address in Washington before the United States Geological
   Survey, Professor Gilbert gave the following interesting
   information regarding the recession of the ground under Niagara
   Falls: The estimate is that for the past forty-four years
   the falls have receded at the rate of twenty-four feet in a
   year. The Horseshoe Falls are at the head of the gorge and the
   American Falls at the eastern side, but the time was when both
   were together, before the little point called Goat Island was
   reached. The recession is more rapid at the center than on the
   sides. As the crest of the Horseshoe Falls retreats the water
   tends to concentrate there, and the time will probably come when
   the sides of the present falls will have become dry shores. The
   gorge is known to be 35,500 feet long. A calculation has shown
   that, on this basis, the falls began to wear away the rock of
   the escarpment near Lewiston about 7,900 years ago.--_Public
   Opinion._

    (1964)


                       MAN’S CONQUEST OF ANIMALS

   Man-eating tigers have for so long been regarded by the natives
   of most parts of India as invincible, or else protected by the
   native religions, that they have had things pretty much their
   own way. One determined hunter for every fifty frightened,
   unarmed men would scarcely serve to intimidate any animal. Many
   tribes of North American Indians looked upon the bear with
   veneration; but for all that, any bear so courageous as to let
   himself be seen by them got an arrow between his ribs right
   away, and in time the whole tribe of American bears learned that
   the chances were against them, just as the wolves and cougars
   arrived at a similar conclusion. Those that turned man-eaters
   might for a few seasons hunt their prey successfully, and if
   gifted with unusual cunning get away unscratched for a while,
   but the vengeance of the tribe would be certain to overtake
   them before very long, and only the more cowardly ones of their
   species would survive to perpetuate the race.--WITMER
   STONE and WILLIAM EVERETT CRAM, “American Animals.”

    (1965)


   =Man’s Greatness=--See SIZE NOT POWER.


                           MAN’S IMPORTANCE

   The world is one thing to a bird, or a fish, but quite another
   thing to Cuvier or Agassiz. Then man entered the scene.
   Stretching out his hand he waved a wonder-working wand. He
   touched the wood, and it became a wagon; he touched the ore and
   it became an engine; he touched the boughs and they became the
   reeds of an organ; he touched the wild animal, and it became a
   burden-bearer for his weary feet; while his intellect turned the
   stone into geology, and the stars into astronomy, and the fields
   into husbandry, and his duties into ethics. When the flint
   and steel meet, something beyond either appears--a tongue of
   flame. And when man and nature met, something new emerged--art,
   industry, ethics, cities and civilization. There is nothing
   great in nature but man. Take man out of this wondrous city with
   its cathedrals, galleries, and homes, and Broadway would become
   a streak of iron-rust. The earth wears man upon her bosom as the
   circling ring wears a sparkling gem. The bog puts forth a white
   lily; genius is a flower rooted in earth, but borrowing its
   bloom and beauty from heaven.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1966)


   =Man’s Part=--See EVANGELIZATION.


   =Man’s Part in Religion=--See FAITH.


                           MAN’S PREEMINENCE

   When you approach a great city at night and see only its
   tens of thousands of lights, you do not for a moment attach
   importance to those mechanical contrivances, the lights. The
   unseen inhabitants in the tens of thousands of lighted homes
   are the real objects of interest and worth. So the worlds, and
   not the suns, are the objects of true worth and interest in
   the universe; the worlds, the lighted and glowing houses of
   God’s children, not the mechanical contrivances for making them
   comfortable. Upon these must center our thought and interest.
   What is the fire which warms the man and cooks his dinner,
   compared with the man himself? What is the light and fire,
   compared with the home? What is the sun, compared with the
   world? Just here we begin to get some breath of assurance. While
   the worlds in our system differ very greatly in size and glory,
   while some of the great suns doubtless have correspondingly
   great worlds circling about them, yet we may reasonably suppose
   that among the worlds of the universe our earth is somewhere
   near the middle of the scale. And we earth-dwellers, intelligent
   children of the Father, are no mean citizens in the kingdom of
   our God. If He has built such a mansion of light for us, and
   kindled such a hearth-fire as our sun, and made us lords and
   masters of such a world as this, why may we not lift up our
   heads in love and triumph? (Text.)--JAMES H. ECOB.

    (1967)

   See SPEECH.


                              MAN’S SIZE

   How big is a man, anyway? Well, he is smaller than an elephant,
   and an elephant is smaller than a mountain, and a mountain is
   smaller than the world, and the world is a mustard-seed compared
   with the sun, and the sun itself is a mere mote in the dust
   cloud of spheres that stretches out through the universe beyond
   the reach of thought.

Coleridge said bigness is not greatness. So while mountains and worlds
are bigger than men, man can remove mountains if not worlds. It is not
mere size that counts, but power and worth. (Text.)

    (1968)


                              MAN’S WORKS

Mabel Earle writes of a bridge flung across from a cliff to an opposite
shore as a symbol of man’s service, improving natural formations:

    The cliff stood waiting, silent and alone,
      After the rending shock which gave it birth;
    Age upon age the waters wore the stone,
      And the long shadows wheeled across the earth,
    Swinging from west to east. Through sun and snow
    It kept God’s secret whispered long ago.

    Once from its topmost crag a cable swung,
      And a face laughed against its frowning strength,
    The life of man in splendid risk outflung
      Fulfilling the slow centuries at length;
    On the bare rock to stamp his signet clear,
    God’s warrant witnessed by the engineer.

    Then, with a flash of fire and blinding smoke,
      A peal that shook the mountain, base to crest,
    The silence of the waiting eons broke
      Into the thunder of that high behest,
    And on the steep where never foot had trod
    Men wrought a pathway for the will of God.

    God of the cliff, from whom the whisper fell
      Of hope and hope’s fulfilment yet to be,
    Make good Thy promise unto us as well;
      Yoke Thou our pride in love’s captivity;
    And, tho it come through fire and scar and throe,
    Give us the crown of service, Lord, to know.

    (1969)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The last ten summers have witnessed greater changes than the
   previous 10,000, for man has learned to work with nature and
   God. The old manuscripts and the grains and fruits depicted
   in old frescoes, tell us that the ancient world had all our
   grains and fruits. Centuries passed, but the same sheaves and
   boughs were ripened. It could not be otherwise. The wheat had
   no feet, the flowers had no hands. The tulip needed man. One
   day man decided to work together with the fruit. He took the
   most brilliant colors and carried the plants into a glass house
   and sealed the room tight. Then he went one hundred miles and
   brought another tulip, being feet thereto, and pollenized the
   one flower with the seed of the other. When ten years had
   passed, lo, there were 5,000 new flowers, never seen before,
   brilliant in hue, and of an unwonted perfume, growing in the
   fields of Holland. In Minnesota, using similar methods, the
   scientists have produced 2,000 new kinds of wheat, and three
   of these wheats have added enormous wealth to Minnesota and
   Dakota. Out in Illinois a professor selected corn with reference
   to the increase of the oil that heats, makes muscle and builds
   tissue. He carried the percentage of oil in a grain of corn from
   four hundredths to six hundredths, and this added some five
   hundred millions to the wealth of the great corn States in a
   single year. And he did it by tying tissue-paper over the tops
   of his selected cornstalks, after which he journeyed several
   hundred miles, to bring pollen with which to fertilize the
   stalks.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1970)


   =Manual-training and Culture=--See COMPREHENSIVENESS IN
      EDUCATION.


   =Many Strings Required=--See STRING, THE NEED OF MORE THAN ONE.


   =Margin, The, and Character=--See CHARACTER, TEST OF.


                            MARGINS OF LIFE

It is the little greater care of the extra hour, the additional effort
that constitutes the margin of advantage of one man over another.
President Garfield said:

   When I was in college, a certain young man was leading the class
   in Latin. I couldn’t see how he got the start of us all so. To
   us he seemed to have an infinite knowledge. He knew more than
   we did. Finally, one day, I asked him when he learned his Latin
   lesson. “At night,” he replied. I learned mine at the same time.
   His window was not far from mine, and I could see him from my
   own. I had finished my lesson the next night as well as usual,
   and, feeling sleepy, was about to go to bed. I happened to
   saunter to my window, and there I saw my classmate still bending
   diligently over his book. “There’s where he gets his margin on
   me,” I thought. “But he shall not have it for once,” I resolved.
   “I will study just a little longer than he does to night.” So
   I took down my books again, and, opening to the lesson, went
   to work with renewed vigor. I watched for the light to go out
   in my classmate’s room. In fifteen minutes it was all dark.
   “There is his margin,” I thought. It was fifteen minutes more
   time. It was hunting out fifteen minutes more of rules and root
   derivatives. How often, when a lesson is well prepared, just
   five minutes spent in perfecting it will make one the best in
   the class. The margin in such a case as that is very small, but
   it is all-important. The world is made up of little things.
   (Text.)

    (1971)


                             MARKING TIME

Too much of human effort consists of merely going through motions
without ever getting forward:

   Bicycle races without leaving the starting-place, which are
   said to be the latest craze in places of amusement in Paris,
   are described in _Popular Mechanics_. Says this paper:
   “The wheel is fixt in a frame fastened to the floor. When the
   rider begins to pedal, a belt from the rear wheel drives a small
   electrical generator. The current thus produced is conducted
   to a motor on wheels and carrying a flag. The track on which
   the motor travels is marked in distances, and each foot of
   track requires as much work by the rider as would have carried
   the bicycle one mile had it been free to run as under ordinary
   conditions of use.” (Text.)

    (1972)


                            MARKS, COVERING

   When the physician prescribed blisters to Marie Bashkirtseff to
   check her consumptive tendency, the vain, cynical girl wrote:
   “I will put on as many blisters as thee like. I shall be able
   to hide the mark by bodices trimmed with flowers and lace and
   tulle, and a thousand other delightful things that are worn,
   without being required; it may even look pretty. Ah! I am
   comforted.” (Text.)

    (1973)


                          MARKS OF CHARACTER

   Admiration is sometimes exprest about the peaceful faces of
   nuns, sisters of charity, and similar devotees of the secluded
   life. But if you polish a piece of stone and keep it in a
   cabinet it will be smooth. The same stone set into a foundation
   will soon show marks of the weather. So marks on the face, lines
   of care, traces of sorrow, usually show that one has been doing
   something; has been of some use; has been developing character.

    (1974)


   =Marks, Removing=--See REMINDERS, UNPLEASANT.


                               MARRIAGE

   Look at marriage as a divine plan for mutual compensation--each
   making up for the deficiencies of the other, somewhat as the
   two lenses of crown-glass and flint-glass combine in the
   achromatic lens. What one has the other has not, and so, by
   association, each gets the advantage of the other’s capacity,
   and finds relief from conscious lack and incompetency.--A.
   T. PIERSON.

    (1975)


   =Marriage and Divorce=--See BIRTH-RATE IN FRANCE; DIVORCE.


                        MARRIAGE CUSTOM, BRUTAL

   The marriage ceremony of the Australian savages consists
   often in the simple process of stunning a stray female of a
   neighboring tribe by means of a club, and then dragging her
   away an unresisting captive, just as the males of the larger
   species of seal are said to attack and temporarily disable their
   intended mates.--FELIX OSWALD, _Good Health_.

    (1976)


                            MARRIAGE RACING

A writer in the New York _Commercial Advertiser_, describing certain
curious marriage customs, says:

   In some cases the ceremony takes the form of what is called
   bride-racing. The girl is given a certain start and the lover is
   expected to overtake her. An observer among the Calmucks assures
   us that no Calmuck girl is ever caught “unless she have a
   partiality for her pursuer.” _Per contra_, Mr. Kennan tells
   us of a bride-race among the Koriacks (northern Asia) which he
   witnest, where the girl went scampering, pursued by her lover,
   through a succession of compartments, called pologs, in a large
   tent. So nimble was the maid that she distanced her pursuer,
   but--she waited for him in the last polog! All of which goes to
   prove that the wise men of old knew what they were talking about
   when they said that the race is not always to the swift.

    (1977)


                    MARRIAGE RELATIONS IN THE EAST

   The third relation in Confucius’ teaching is that of “Husband
   and Wife.” Confucius expressly teaches that husband and wife are
   very “different” beings, which is in startling contrast to the
   teachings of Christ, who called the twain “one.” The husband
   of the East was carefully cautioned not to love his wife very
   much, as that showed an effeminate man. The kiss between husband
   and wife was wholly unknown, and when foreigners were first seen
   to show affection in this way, it was regarded as extremely
   funny. “Every time I see foreigners kiss, I catch a sick,” said
   a student who was trying to air his English.--JOHN H. DE
   FOREST, “Sunrise in the Sunrise Kingdom.”

    (1978)


                             MARTYR SPIRIT

   Bad things are said against the Japanese, with more or less
   truth. But yet, a nation whose history has so many moral heroes
   can not be bad at heart. Japan has produced one man who gave
   his life to save the people of his province from oppression and
   ruin. He was cruelly crucified, his innocent wife with him, and
   their children were barbarously executed before the parents’
   eyes. Yet this man’s dying words on the cross were: “Had I five
   hundred lives, I’d gladly give them all for you, my people.” So
   far as I know, there is no other story in all history so closely
   resembling that of the crucifixion of Christ as this. The nation
   that can produce one such hero has the potency and promise of
   noble morality. This fearlessness of death in the face of duty
   runs all through the history of the people, which tells of
   wives who willingly died for their husbands, of children for
   their parents, of parents for their children, and of subjects
   for their lords.--JOHN H. DE FOREST, “Sunrise in the
   Sunrise Kingdom.”

    (1979)


   =Martyrdom=--See MISSIONARY MARTYRDOM.


                                MARTYRS

    They never fail who die
    In a great cause; the block may soak their gore,
    Their heads may sodden in the sun, their limbs
    Be strung to city gates and castle walls,
    But still their spirits walk abroad, tho years
    Elapse, and others share as dark a doom;
    They but augment the deep and swelling thoughts
    That overpower all others, and conduct
    The world at last to freedom.

    --BYRON.

    (1980)


   =Masks=--See EVIL, DISGUISED.


                           MASSES, AMONG THE

Alexander Irvine, author and lecturer, speaking before the Brooklyn
Society for Ethical Culture, said in part:

   Speaking for the mass of the laborers, the men and women of the
   underworld, men and women not knowing or appreciating beauty
   in any form, men who know only the whip and spur, I speak
   feelingly, for I was one of them. I began work caring for the
   horses of a rich man and I wondered then why a horse was of
   more value than a man. I had then the ambition to have as good
   a life as the horse. I quit and went to a coalpit and worked
   for a shilling a day in merry England, and I saw there the same
   disparity. I was a miner’s mucker, and the mules were better and
   far more considered than the men. There was at the time a labor
   leader trying to organize the men to work for better wages and
   better hours. I tried to teach them the way to heaven. He was
   doing the better work, as those workmen in the mines could not
   have appreciated heaven.

   In a lumber-camp I saw peonage at its worst. I was a peon
   myself, under the whip and lash and the butt-end of the whip was
   held in Wall Street, and the lash cut the backs of Anglo-Saxon
   men. Could I find a magazine to print my story of what I saw? I
   could not. The stocks of the magazine company were owned by the
   capitalists.--Brooklyn _Standard Union_.

    (1981)


                       MASTER HAND, LACKING THE

   Some years ago I was chairman of a church committee to purchase
   a new pipe-organ. We were an ambitious congregation, and nothing
   but the biggest and the best would suffice. We purchased a
   magnificent instrument--three manuals, tracker, pneumatic
   action, 1,944 pipes, and all the necessary swells and stops;
   cost $5,000. It was a “thing of beauty,” and we expected it to
   be a “joy forever.” The congregation was pleased; the committee
   was delighted.

   But somehow things did not go well. Sister Jones, the old
   organist, would not touch the new-fangled thing. “Too much
   machinery and too much show,” she said. Of course, we were
   adverse to going outside of the congregation for an organist.
   So we tried Minnie Wright, the deacon’s daughter; but Minnie
   could not manipulate the stops and swells. We next tried Josie
   Grayson, an orphan girl, who really needed the place. Now, Josie
   could play with her hands, but when it came to playing with
   her feet also she could not do it. We next tried Seth McGraw,
   who had been to college and who, in addition to his musical
   ability, was able-bodied and strong. Seth put all the power on
   the motor, pulled out all the stops, and kicked and pawed with
   might and main. The organ shrieked and bellowed and roared.
   As for noise, the bulls of Bashan were outclassed. But as for
   music--well, it requires more than a big organ and a big man
   to produce that. The congregation was disappointed, disgusted,
   and fast becoming desperate. They said that the organ was too
   big, too complicated, and that it had at least nineteen hundred
   pipes too many. There were charges of mismanagement and even
   fraud against the committee, and hints that “something might
   be doing.” Now, Indiana lies in the north central portion of
   the lynching belt of the United States, so the committee felt a
   trifle uncomfortable.

   To my way of thinking, there is a marked similarity between the
   musical experience of this congregation and the educational
   experience of many communities in this country. We have built
   great schoolhouses and prepared elaborate courses of study,
   with more manuals, stops, and swells than characterized the
   great organ of Newtown. The old course of study, which was so
   simple that even Sister Jones could play it by ear, has given
   place to a new, elaborate, and highly organized course which is
   difficult--entirely too difficult--for the Minnie Wrights and
   Josie Graysons, no difference if the one is a relative of some
   member of the school-board and the other is the daughter of a
   poor widow. It requires more, too, than an able-bodied man to
   get proper results from the course of study, even if he has been
   to college and played fullback on the football team. He may make
   a great ado about it, but the results will be very similar to
   Seth McGraw’s music on the pipe-organ--calculated to incite a
   riot.--J. W. CARR.

    (1982)


                           MASTER MIND, THE

Jesus, as the Master mind of the world, rules in it by controlling many
other minds, as the master clock in this account controls many other
clocks:

   “A German has invented a new clock system which has some
   original features worthy of mention,” says _The American
   Inventor_. “The system is that of a master clock which
   controls electrically as many individual clock installations
   as may be required. The clock, which is installed in the house
   or place of business of the subscriber to the system, is
   similar to the ordinary one, inasmuch as it has a face and two
   hands; but the works are replaced by a couple of magnets and a
   balance-wheel. The master clock is provided with a transmitting
   apparatus designed to be operated by the movement of the hands.
   An impulse is sent from the wires when the hands of the master
   clock advance one minute on the face of the dial. This impulse
   affects the magnets in the small clocks in such a way that the
   hands are advanced the same amount as were the hands of the
   master clock. This operation is kept up indefinitely, and, of
   course, all of the small clocks keep exactly the same time as
   the master clock.” (Text.)

    (1983)


   =Master Revealed=--See CAPTAIN, THE DIVINE.


   =Master, Thinking About His=--See DUTY.


                                MASTERY

   One of those strong currents, always mysterious, and sometimes
   impossible to foresee, had set us into shore out of our course,
   and the ship was blindly beating on a dreary coast of sharp and
   craggy rocks.

   Suddenly we heard a voice up in the fog in the direction of
   the wheel-house, ringing like a clarion above the roar of the
   waves, and the clashing sounds on shipboard, and it had in it
   an assuring, not a fearful tone. As the orders came distinctly
   and deliberately through the captain’s trumpet, to “shift the
   cargo,” to “back her,” to “keep her steady,” we felt somehow
   that the commander up there in the thick mist on the wheel-house
   knew what he was about, and that through his skill and courage,
   by the blessing of heaven, we should all be rescued. The man who
   saved us so far as human aid ever saves drowning mortals, was
   one fully competent to command a ship; and when, after weary
   days of anxious suspense, the vessel leaking badly, and the
   fires in danger of being put out, we arrived safely in Halifax,
   old Mr. Cunard, agent of the line, on hearing from the mail
   officer that the steamer had struck on the rocks and had been
   saved only by the captain’s presence of mind and courage, simply
   replied: “Just what might have been expected in such a disaster;
   Captain Harrison is always master of the situation.”--JAMES
   T. FIELDS.

    (1984)


                        MASTERY BY INTELLIGENCE

The devil can always be beaten if we go about it seriously:

   Morphy, the American chess-player, looking at the picture of
   a youth playing chess with Satan, and, apparently, doomed to
   inevitable defeat, studied the position, called for chessmen and
   board in reality, and by one move won the hypothetical game.

    (1985)


   =Mastery Necessary to Progress=--See CONQUEST BY MAN.


                       MASTERY OF CIRCUMSTANCES

   One of Mr. Ingersoll’s most eloquent chapters is on “Man as an
   Automaton,” played upon by the blind forces of nature. A clot in
   the brain explains Benedict Arnold’s treason. A foul taint in
   the arteries that is like a fungus luring a merchant ship on the
   rocks. Penury and vicious environment fill our jails and must
   fill them. But the argument was born of a great man’s beautiful
   sympathy for his fellow sufferers. It did not issue from logic
   or nature or events. Indeed, all life and daily experience stood
   up and shouted against his affirmation. What! Man a puppet with
   whom nature plays an endless game of battledore and shuttlecock!
   Man a victim of heredity and environment! Some years ago I met a
   successful merchant, living in a beautiful house on one of the
   best avenues in his great city. His mother was an evil woman,
   his father a river thief, he was kicked around the river front
   until he was eight, slept in the loft of a livery stable until
   he was nine, killed a man when he was ten, taken home by one
   of the participants in the trial, became the partner of his
   benefactor and achieved universal recognition and honor.--N.
   D. HILLIS.

    (1986)

   See COLLEGE OR EXPERIENCE.


                           MASTERY OF NATURE

   Until a generation ago our great lakes of the north were closed
   with the ice, which stopt all navigation until the thaw of
   the spring came. Now there are ice-boats, made of steel with
   powerful engines, that not only cut paths for themselves and the
   heavy freight which they carry, but also make a path for less
   powerful craft. They pound their way through the ice-fields,
   and thus make all-the-year-round navigation possible. The ports
   of northern Europe used to be locked with ice until these great
   ice-breaking ships were brought into use. There is nothing short
   of an iceberg which they can not overcome. Our lakes do not have
   bergs, of course, and hence these great ice-cutting ships have a
   marvelous mastery over the obstacles.

The mastery of the ice-fields by the hardy men and powerful ships of
the north is another illustration of human genius and sovereignty.
(Text.)

    (1987)


                       MATERIAL FOR A GREAT LIFE

   Do not try to do a great thing; you may waste all your life
   waiting for the opportunity which may never come. To be content
   to be a fountain in the midst of a wild valley of stones,
   nourishing a few lichens and wild flowers or now and again a
   thirsty sheep; and to do this always and not for the praise of
   man, but for the sake of God--this makes a great life.--F.
   B. MEYER.

    (1988)


   =Material, The, and the Spiritual=--See MYSTERY IN RELIGION.


                        MATERIALISM INADEQUATE

A machine can tell us something about its maker, but it can not produce
another machine. The gospel of materialism is inadequate to explain the
world.

   “Give me matter,” said Kant, “and I will explain the formation
   of a world; but give me matter only, and I can not explain the
   formation of a caterpillar.”

The glory of the Creator has not descended to man and it will not.
Matter, in all its inertia and helplessness but adds to the angelic
refrain, “Worship God.”

    (1989)


                         MATERNAL, GOD’S LOVE

The pagan Stoic poet, Cleanthes, who flourished B.C. 260, would seem
to have caught a glimpse of the maternal quality of God. One of his
prayers is:

   “Merciful mother! bestow favor upon me, thy poor worshiper,
   whatever evil I may be guilty of. Thou hast a maternal nature,
   art gentle and patient, thou supreme one.” (Text.)

    (1990)


   =Maternal Love and Fiction=--See MOTHERS NOT IN FICTION.


                           MATURITY, SINS OF

   Remember that the time is short, too short, to recover from
   mistakes. An old man’s broken limb heals slowly. The butterfly
   that tears its wing in the morning in August does not heal its
   wound. The mature goldfish may tear the hook loose, but the hurt
   can not be cured. The well-grown tree suffers grievously from
   the gash of an ax. Sin injures youth much, but scars maturity
   more. Saul pleased God in his youth, and lost his soul in his
   maturity.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (1991)


                         MEALS, SIMPLICITY IN

   It is related of Count von Haseler, who for twelve years
   commanded the Sixteenth German Army Corps at Metz, and enjoyed
   a high reputation in other countries besides his own, that when
   on a tour of inspection he arrived at a hotel where a sumptuous
   meal had been prepared for him. To the proprietor’s infinite
   disappointment he ordered a glass of milk and some bread and
   butter to be taken to his room, whence he did not emerge for
   the rest of the evening. This talented soldier, when nearing
   his seventieth year, spent whole days in the saddle in all
   weathers, and his untiring energy is still a favorite theme of
   conversation in German military circles.--_National Review._

    (1992)


                           MEAN, THE GOLDEN

   In arctic regions plants, which under more genial conditions
   would unfold themselves in a delightful perfection, remain
   stunted and mean, exhausting their vitality in withstanding
   the severities of the climate. The same is true of animal
   life. The Newfoundland dogs of Kane, in the Polar seas, became
   mad through the excruciating severity of the cold. The birds
   come to a certain strength and glory through the necessity of
   awareness, but there is often such a fearful blood-thirstiness
   in the tropical forest, such a profusion of cruel hawks, owls,
   serpents, and beasts of prey, that a bird’s life is one long
   terror, and it forgets its music. And this applies equally
   to man. He is all the better for a regulated conflict with
   his environment, but all the worse if the conflict attain
   undue severity. His conflict with nature may exhaust him.
   (Text.)--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (1993)


                           MEANING, LOGICAL

   Take the English proverb, “Tenderden steeple is the cause of
   Goodwin Sands.” We said, “How ignorant a population!” But, when
   we went deeper into the history, we found that the proverb
   was not meant for logic, but was meant for sarcasm. One of
   the bishops had £50,000 given to him to build a breakwater to
   save the Goodwin Sands from the advancing sea; but the good
   bishop, instead of building the breakwater to keep out the sea,
   simply built a steeple; and this proverb was sarcastic, and not
   logical, that “Tenderden steeple was the cause of the Goodwin
   Sands.” When you contemplate the motive, there was the closest
   and best-welded logic in the proverb. So I think a large share
   of our criticism of old legends and old statements will be found
   in the end to be the ignorance that overleaps its own saddle and
   falls on the other side.--WENDELL PHILLIPS.

    (1994)


   =Means and End=--See VALUES, STANDARD OF.


                      MEANS, LIVING WITHIN ONE’S

   The man of five hundred dollars income is trying to live as
   tho he were sure of a thousand. Of course he is in straits and
   shallows. Instead of sailing on a fair sea, as he might within
   his own range, he is doomed to struggle perpetually with his
   head under water. To live generously is desirable when one has
   the means; but to attempt a scale of expenditure beyond our
   means is neither wise nor comfortable. How much more sensible
   to live in a modest way, agreeable to our fortune and suited to
   our condition! To follow this rule requires more courage than to
   besiege a city or fight a battle; but it is attainment for which
   we should aspire as a means of personal comfort and a guard
   against temptation.--_Zion’s Herald._

    (1995)


                          MEASURE FOR MEASURE

   “How is it, Mr. Brown,” said a miller to a farmer, “that when I
   came to measure those ten barrels of apples I bought from you I
   found them nearly two barrels short?” “Singular, very singular;
   for I sent them to you in ten of your own flour barrels.” (Text.)

    (1996)


                              MEASUREMENT

Man’s power to solve the problems of the natural world is indicated
by the feats of modern photography, of which O. H. Cloudy writes as
follows:

   Just think for an instant what the twelve-hundredth part of
   a second really means. A railroad train going sixty miles an
   hour, or eighty-eight feet per second, would move, in such an
   interval, less than one inch. A bullet, with a muzzle velocity
   of twelve hundred feet per second, would get but one short
   foot from the muzzle before a twelve-hundredth of a second had
   elapsed. Could two bells be rung, one twelve-hundredth of a
   second after the other, the sound-waves given out by them both
   would travel within five feet of each other, too close for any
   human ear to distinguish that there was more than one sound. Yet
   in this tiny bit of time the eye of the camera can record on the
   sensitive plate everything in front of it, with sufficient force
   to make a good negative. (Text.)--_The American Inventor._

    (1997)


   =Measurement of Morals=--See CONSCIENCE A MORAL MENTOR.


                        MEASUREMENT, SPIRITUAL

   I must see your motives, your disposition, your loves and hates,
   your aspirations and longings and hopes, before I can say I see
   you. How tall are you? How much do you weigh? Six feet, you say,
   and weigh a hundred and fifty pounds? Both of us are wrong. You
   can’t measure the self by a foot-rule, nor weigh it in iron
   scales. Every time you aspire and hope and love you escape the
   body and live in the heights and distances. To estimate you
   aright I must gather up all your hopes and aspirations and
   faiths and loves; and if you have been wise enough to reach up
   and lay hold of the eternal I must weigh and measure the eternal
   in order to estimate you.--ROBERT MACDONALD.

    (1998)


                          MECCA, INFLUENCE OF

   The pilgrimage to Mecca is not only one of the pillars of the
   religion of Islam, but it has proved one of the strongest
   bonds of union and has always exercised a tremendous influence
   as a missionary agency. Even to-day the pilgrims who return
   from Mecca to their native villages in Java, India, and west
   Africa, are fanatical ambassadors of the greatness and glory
   of Islam. From an ethical standpoint, the Mecca pilgrimage,
   with its superstitious and childish ritual, is a blot upon
   Mohammedan monotheism. But as a great magnet to draw the Moslem
   world together with an annual and ever-widening _esprit de
   corps_, the Mecca pilgrimage is without a rival. The number
   of pilgrims that come to Mecca varies from year to year. The
   vast majority arrive by sea from Egypt, India, and the Malay
   Archipelago. The pilgrim caravan from Syria and Arabia by land
   is growing smaller every year, for the roads are very unsafe.
   It will probably increase again on the completion of the Hejaz
   railway from Damascus to Mecca. All told, the present number is
   from sixty to ninety thousand pilgrims each year.--SAMUEL M.
   ZWEMER, “The Moslem World.”

    (1999)


                               MEDIATION

   King Edward III, in 1347, besieged Calais and the French king,
   very unwilling to lose his town, sought to come to the help
   of his people, but in vain. King Edward refused to grant any
   conditions of peace. The people were hunger-bitten because of
   the protracted siege. The unrelenting king said, “You must give
   up yourselves to be dealt with as I will. Let six of the chief
   citizens of the town come to me with halters around their necks,
   their heads and feet bare, and the keys of the town and castle
   in their hands. With these I will deal as I please.” Accordingly
   these six, led by the governor, came to the king. Dropping on
   their knees before him, they implored him to spare their lives.
   King Edward refused to grant them mercy and ordered their
   instant death. His chief counselors and governor entreated him
   to spare these brave and valiant men, but his purpose was fixt.
   No merit that they might plead could cause him to change his
   mind, until finally, his consort, Queen Philippa knelt before
   him and said: “I pray you, sire, for the love that you bear me,
   to have mercy upon the men.” Then the king relented, saying: “I
   can not refuse the thing which you ask in this way. I give you,
   therefore, these men to do with them as you please.” The men
   were then taken to clean apartments to be well clothed and fed.
   (Text.)

    (2000)


   =Medical Missionaries=--See GOD SENDS GIFTS; INDIA, MEDICAL
      OPPORTUNITIES IN; MISSIONARIES, MEDICAL; SURGERY IN KOREA.


                           MEDICAL MISSIONS

   Some of the best surgical work in the world is done by medical
   missionaries, who often have the poorest kind of equipment in
   the way of building and apparatus. Dr. H. N. Kinnear, at the
   head of a hospital in Fuchau, used the sitting-room of his own
   house for an operating-room, but in one year he performed over
   eight hundred operations, with only his wife and untrained
   natives for assistants. Of the nearly 18,000 patients treated
   last year, several came from high-class families, and they were
   most appreciative of what was done for them. A distinctive
   feature of this and all mission hospitals is the person,
   usually a native Christian, who acts as a kind of chaplain.
   Many of the patients have never heard the gospel story, and
   while they are being helped physically they listen willingly
   to what is told them. Religious services are also held every
   day in the room where people await their turn and receive the
   bamboo tallies that decide the order in which they are to be
   seen. Fees are ridiculously small, according to our American
   standard, five cents being the maximum, except in special
   cases, when the munificent sum of twenty cents is charged.
   This allows precedence to men who wear the long gown of the
   literati and object to waiting while laborers and women receive
   attention. Dr. Kinnear is a resourceful man, and often uses
   the Chinese queue to hold in place dressings of wounds about
   the head or as a sling for the support of injured or diseased
   hands and arms. He writes that he considers medical missionaries
   the most favored of all workers. Yet his salary is far below
   what he could earn as a surgeon in the United States.--Boston
   _Transcript_.

    (2001)

   See MISSIONS; MISSIONARIES, MEDICAL.


   =Medical Science=--See LIFE PROLONGED.


   =Meeting of Friends and Foes=--See AMITY AFTER WAR.


                         MELODY FROM DRUDGERY

   When you go into some great cathedral across the sea, to watch
   the player on the keys, which away up in the tower are sounding
   forth their wondrous chime, down there you hear only the clatter
   of the wires, the deafening din of the reverberating bells, and
   the clanging of the wooden shoes he wears upon his hands with
   which to strike the keyboard, sending out away up there in the
   belfry the silvery notes which he himself can scarcely hear.

   Ah, but they are heard. Many a tired soul stops on the distant
   hillside in his day’s toil to listen to those strains, and his
   heart is filled with a strange gladness and peace. And amid the
   din and tumult of your daily work, it may sometimes seem as tho
   you were doing naught which was worth the doing; down there in
   obscurity, unthought of and unnoticed by the great world, simply
   beating out the allotted task upon the clattering keyboard which
   the Master has set for you. But do it well. Do it as the violet
   smiles, as the bird sings, as Jesus lived, and you shall send
   out over land and sea music, which shall bless the generations
   afar off.--GEORGE T. DOWLING.

    (2002)


   =Membership, Church=--See BADGES.


   =Membership of Churches, Distribution of=--See CHURCH
      STATISTICS.


   =Memorial Day=--See DEAD, INFLUENCE OF; DECORATING SOLDIERS’
      GRAVES; HONOR’S ROLL-CALL.


                          MEMORIAL OF LINCOLN

   In the museum connected with the monument to Abraham Lincoln,
   at Springfield, Illinois, among other relics suggestive of the
   spirit and mission of the great emancipator, is treasured a
   piece of the rich gown worn by Laura Keene, the actress, in
   Ford’s Theater, Washington, on the tragic night when Lincoln
   fell. After the fatal shot of the assassin, Miss Keene sprang to
   the box and caught in her lap the head of the slain President,
   while the blood from the oozing wound saturated a portion of her
   garment. After the event, that blood-stained breadth was cut
   from the gown, sent to Springfield and preserved as the speaking
   symbol of the great sacrificial life which Lincoln lived even
   unto death, on behalf of the redemption of the black slaves of
   the South.--H. C. MABIE, “Methods in Evangelism.”

    (2003)


   =Memorial to Humble Helpers=--See NEGRO “MAMMY” REMEMBERED.


   =Memorials of Genius=--See ECONOMY, DIVINE.


                        MEMORIALS OF PATRIOTISM

   When the Paris Commune savagely threw down the Vendome column
   all the civilized world felt a shock of disgust. Why? Certainly
   not because all the world equally admired Napoleon, whose
   triumphs the column recorded. Certainly not alone for the reason
   that it was a noble work of art. It was because all intelligent
   and unprejudiced people instinctively recognized that the column
   had been reared as an emblem of patriotism. That column stood
   for something higher than the fame of an individual conqueror,
   and for something broader than any theory of government or
   reaction of parties. It stood for the glory and dignity of
   France. It typified the love of the native land--patriotism.
   Take, as another instance, the great Washington shaft at
   the capital. Long delayed, frequently jeered at before its
   completion, it now lifts its finished strength toward heaven in
   everlasting tribute to the great leader of the Revolution and
   the founder of our nation.--New York _Star_.

    (2004)


                                MEMORY

God’s precepts should be as thoroughly stamped on the memory as the
landscape mentioned below was on the artist’s mind:

   A publisher ordered from Gustave Doré a picture, sending him a
   photograph of some Alpine scenery to be copied. The artist went
   away without his model, and the publisher was much provoked;
   but he was astonished when Doré appeared next day with the
   desired picture, having made it from memory. A few seconds’
   examination of the photograph had sufficed to impress on his
   memory the slightest details and to enable him to reproduce them
   with not a rock or a tree lacking. (Text.)--L. MENARD,
   _Cosmos_.

    (2005)

       *       *       *       *       *

   “What did I do with that memorandum?” said a
   distinguished-looking man, speaking half to himself but with his
   eyes on the clerk, who stood waiting for his order in a large
   city grocery. “What I’ve done with that memorandum this time I
   really can not imagine. But you just wait a minute.”

   He began searching his pockets. From each of them came scraps of
   paper, big and little, old letters with pencil notes on them,
   envelops similarly decorated, two or three small note-books, a
   theater program, and a number of pieces evidently torn from the
   margin of a newspaper and covered with writing. He examined the
   scraps one after another and restored each bunch to its separate
   pocket. The clerk waited, and a customer farther along the
   counter eyed the display with curiosity.

   “Gone,” said the gentleman, with an air of finality. “I’ll have
   to trust to memory.”

   The clerk nodded.

   “Six eggs?” he said, with an interrogative inflection.

   “Right,” said the gentleman.

   The clerk wrote it down. “A pound of butter?” he continued.

   “A pound of butter,” agreed the gentleman.

   “Bread?”

   “Three loaves.”

   “Coffee?”

   The gentleman hesitated. “No,” he said, with decision. “Coffee
   enough on hand to last the rest of the week.” He smiled
   contentedly, watched the clerk write a name and address at the
   top of the order, and then went out of the shop whistling.

   “How did you know what he wanted?” asked the other customer of
   the clerk.

   “He lives just around the corner in an apartment, and he and his
   wife get their own breakfasts. Always the same things--never any
   change--but he always has to have it written down.”

   “Do you know who he is?”

   “His name is Bertini, I think. He’s a kind of professor. I
   believe he has a kind of memory system he teaches to people who
   can’t remember things.”

   The other customer smiled, but the clerk was quite serious. He
   had no sense of humor.--_The Youth’s Companion._

    (2006)

   See ABSENT-MINDEDNESS.


                          MEMORY AND DISEASE

   Many strange defects of memory are known to exist, and of these
   an interesting example may be given.

   A business man of keen mind and good general memory, who was not
   paralyzed in any way, and was perfectly able to comprehend and
   engage in conversation, suddenly lost a part of his power of
   reading and of mathematical calculation.

   The letters d, g, q, x, and y, tho seen perfectly, were in this
   case no longer recognized, and conveyed no more idea to him than
   Chinese characters would to most of us. He had difficulty in
   reading--was obliged to spell out all words, and could read no
   words containing three letters.

   He could write the letters which he could read, but could not
   write the five letters mentioned. He could read and write
   certain numbers, but 6, 7, and 8, had been lost to him; and
   when asked to write them his only result, after many attempts,
   was to begin to write the words six, seven, and eight, not being
   able to finish these, as the first and last contained letters (x
   and g) which he did not know.

   He could not add 7 and 5, or any two numbers whereof 6, 7, or 8
   formed a part, for he could not call them to mind. Other numbers
   he knew well. He could no longer tell time by the watch.

   For a week after the beginning of this curious condition he did
   not recognize his surroundings. On going out for the first time
   the streets of the city no longer seemed familiar; on coming
   back he did not know his own house. After a few weeks, however,
   all his memories had returned excepting those of the letters
   and figures named; but as the loss of these put a stop to his
   reading, and to all his business life, the small defect of
   memory was to him a serious thing.

   Experience has shown that such a defect is due to a small area
   of disease in one part of the brain.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (2007)


   =Memory Elusive=--See HEADS, LOSING.


                       MEMORY FACULTY IN FISHES

   Experiments recently made at Tortugas show that fishes have the
   faculty of remembering for at least twenty-four hours.

   The fish studied at Tortugas are gray perch, whose favorite food
   is the little silver sardine. The experimenters painted some of
   the silver sardines light red; then they offered them to the
   gray perch mixed with the unpainted sardines. The perch snatched
   the silver sardines and ate them, then very deliberately and
   cautiously they nibbled at the painted sardines. Finding that
   the fish were the same whether red or silver, they devoured the
   red fish.

   Having given proof of their intelligence, they were permitted
   to rest twenty-four hours. The experimenters offered them
   silver sardines, sardines painted red, and sardines painted
   blue. The perch quickly devoured the silver fish, then, without
   an instant’s hesitation, they devoured the red fish. Finally,
   gliding cautiously up to the blue fish, they took a bite and
   darted away. As the taste was favorable they returned to the
   blue fish, nibbled again, and devoured them.

   The experimenters then tied sea-thistles to the blue sardines.
   The perch nibbled, then, disagreeably surprized, darted away.
   For twenty-four hours not a fish approached the painted blue
   fishes. They remembered the sea-thistles. But their memory
   is short; the day following again they snatched the blue
   fish.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (2008)


                           MEMORY, MOURNFUL

   Renan, in one of his books, recalls an old French legend of a
   buried city on the coast of Brittany. With its homes, public
   buildings, churches and thronged streets, it sank instantly into
   the sea. The legend says that the city’s life goes on as before
   down beneath the waves. The fishermen, when in calm weather they
   row over the place, sometimes think they can see the gleaming
   tips of the church-spires deep in the water, and fancy they can
   hear the chiming of the bells in the old belfries, and even
   the murmur of the city’s noises. There are men who in their
   later years seem to have an experience like this. Their life
   of youthful hopes, dreams, successes and joys has been sunk
   out of sight, submerged in misfortunes and adversities and has
   vanished altogether. All that remains is a memory. In their
   discouragement they seem to hear the echoes of the old songs of
   hope and gladness, and to catch visions of the old beauty and
   splendor, but that is all. They have nothing real left. They
   have grown hopeless and bitter.

    (2009)


                            MEMORY RENEWED

   Instances are on record in which those who had heard passages
   from a foreign and perfectly unintelligible tongue, which
   seemed, of course, to have passed at once from out their
   recollection, as the breath fades off from the polished
   mirror--have afterward recalled these in delirium or death, or
   at some moment of extraordinary excitement, with the utmost
   clearness and fullness of detail. And the instances are
   frequent, within our observation, in which aged men recall with
   vivid distinctness the poetry they recited, the problems they
   studied, the games they played, in the freshness of youth, or
   the arguments they made in the prime of their manhood; altho
   a thousand intervening events had taken a prominence before
   them since that, these never had seemed to have submerged those
   forever in their thoughts--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (2010)


                      MEMORY REVIVED BY SICKNESS

   A case cited by Dr. Abercrombie confirms the suggestive theory
   that the stimulus which fever gives to the circulation (sign
   of the disease tho it is) may bring dormant mental impression
   into temporary activity. A boy at the age of four had undergone
   the operation of trepanning being at the time in a state of
   stupor from a severe fracture of the skull. After his recovery
   he retained no recollection either of the accident or of the
   operation. But at the age of fifteen, during an attack of fever,
   he gave his mother an account of the operation, describing
   the persons who were present, and even remembering details
   of their dress and other minute particulars.--RICHARD A.
   PROCTOR, New York _Mail and Express_.

    (2011)


                            MEMORY, UNUSUAL

   Pepys tells us of an Indian who could repeat a long passage
   in Greek or Hebrew after it had been recited to him only
   once, tho he was ignorant of either language. This man would
   doubtless have been able to repeat, so far as his vocal
   organs would permit him to imitate the sounds, the song of a
   nightingale or a lark, through all its ever-varying passages,
   during ten or twenty minutes, and with as much understanding
   of its significance as of the meaning of the Greek and Latin
   words he recited so glibly. We certainly need not envy
   that particular “poor Indian” his “untutored mind,” tho as
   certainly the power he possest would be of immense value to a
   philosopher.--RICHARD A. PROCTOR, New York _Mail and
   Express_.

    (2012)


   =Memory, Verbal=--See ROTE VERSUS REASON.


                                  MEN

It would be difficult to think of a time when the sentiment exprest
in this poem by J. G. Holland would not be appropriate. The important
thing, however, is that it applies to our time.

    God, give us men! A time like this demands
    Strong minds, great hearts, true faith, and ready hands;
    Men whom the lust of office does not kill;
      Men whom the spoils of office can not buy;
    Men who possess opinions and a will,
      Men who have honor, men who will not lie;
    Men who can stand before a demagog,
      And damn his treacherous flatteries without winking;
    Tall men, sun-crowned, who live above the fog
      In public duty and in private thinking;
    For while the rabble, with their thumb-worn creeds,
    Their large professions and their little deeds,
    Mingle in selfish strife, lo! Freedom weeps,
    Wrong rules the land, and waiting Justice sleeps!

    (2013)


   =Men are Gods=--See CHILDREN’S RELIGIOUS IDEAS.


                        MENACES TO CIVILIZATION

   In ancient Athens the Cave of the Furies was underneath the rock
   on whose top sat the court of the Areopagus.

May not modern civilization have an underside that harbors many kinds
of moral furies?

    (2014)


   =Menagerie, A Moral=--See SELF-CONFLICT.


   =Mental Device=--See PATIENCE.


   =Mental Quickness=--See PRESENCE OF MIND.


   =Mental States and Dress=--See DRESS AFFECTING MOODS.


                       MENTALITY, DEVELOPMENT OF

C. C. Abbot writes in the New York _Sun_:

   Beasts and birds long ago became afraid of man, and afraid of
   him in a way wholly different from their fear of other forms of
   animal life. This demonstrates that they recognize a difference,
   as when I can not approach a snipe that will permit a cow almost
   to tread upon it. Fear being the sum of disastrous experiences,
   the birds that soonest learned the lesson of prudence left
   the most descendants. The fearless ones paid the price of
   their foolhardiness and died out. Such conditions did not call
   for anatomical changes, but mental ones, and this increased
   mentality that led to the preservation of the species is so near
   the border line of what Goldwin Smith calls self-improvement
   that it can be looked upon only as its forerunner, as birds and
   all beasts foreran the man who was to prove their arch enemy.

    (2015)


   =Mercenary Spirit, The=--See GOLD, TAINT OF.


                         MERCY, LIMITATION OF

Says the old hymn:

    While the lamp holds out to burn,
    The vilest sinner may return.

   An old Saxon king had some serious trouble with his subjects:
   they murmured against him and at last rose up in rebellion.
   The king set out to subdue them, and soon the well-disciplined
   troops won a decided victory over the tatterdemalion horde
   opposing them. Having conquered, the king determined to show
   mercy. He adopted the novel expedient of placing a candle in the
   window of his castle and proclaiming that all should be pardoned
   who returned “while the candle burns.” (Text.)

    (2016)


   =Merit=--See PRAISE, UNNECESSARY.


                             MERIT COUNTS

   An instance of a work published not because of its merit, but
   “from a cold and calculating publisher’s point of view of very
   doubtful sale,” is McMaster’s “History of the United States.”

   The manuscript of the first volume was sent to the house by the
   author without introduction or comment of any kind. The author
   was a young tutor in mathematics at Princeton, had published
   nothing on any historical subject, and as far as any one knew
   at Princeton, had made no special historical study. It appeared
   that one very prominent New York house had declined to risk
   the publication of the work, and the historical expert of the
   house could not bring himself to recommend it as a reasonable
   publishing venture. Finally, the senior member of the firm read
   the manuscript himself, and decided to undertake the venture,
   believing in its probable success. The author was written to,
   he presented himself for the first time, being personally
   unknown in the office, and arrangements for the publication of
   this most popular and successful work were concluded within ten
   minutes.--_Appleton’s Magazine._

    (2017)


   =Merit Recognized=--See INCONSPICUOUS WORKERS.


                              MERIT WINS

Dr. S. Parkes Cadman tells this story of the late Dudley Buck, the
well-known musical composer:

   He was offered a thousand dollars by the managers of the
   Cincinnati Festival for a score which should embody solos,
   choruses and the accompanying orchestration. He promptly refused
   the offer, because it was not an open one to all competitors.
   Thereupon the managers threw it open, and the result was that
   Mr. Buck sent in “Marmion” and his setting of “The Golden
   Legend” under a nom de plume, and, of course, its merits won the
   prize.

    (2018)


   =Merriment Misplaced=--See DRUNKENNESS, THE TRAGEDY OF.


                           MESSAGE, A TIMELY

   In the “Life of Lord Tennyson,” by his son, a story is told of
   a New England clergyman who once wrote to Tennyson telling him
   how, one Sabbath, he was strangely imprest to drop his sermon,
   and recite “The Charge of the Light Brigade.” The congregation
   were shocked and later dismissed the pastor. Subsequently, a
   stranger called upon this clergyman, and told him how on that
   particular Sunday he had wandered into his church and heard him
   recite the famous poem; that he was in that charge; had fought
   at Gettysburg; and felt he had done something, and ought to be a
   man. Said the New England clergyman to the old England poet: “I
   lost my pulpit, but I saved a soul.”

    (2019)


                          MESSAGE, A WELCOME

   It is related that one day, when the arctic explorer Nansen was
   battling with the ice-floes in the Polar seas, a carrier-pigeon
   tapped at the window of Mrs. Nansen’s home at Christiania.
   Instantly the casement was opened, and the wife of the famous
   arctic explorer in another moment covered the little messenger
   with kisses and caresses. The carrier-pigeon had been away from
   the cottage thirty long months, but it had not forgotten the way
   home. It brought a note from Nansen stating that all was going
   well with him and his expedition in the Polar regions. He had
   fastened the message to the frail courier, and turned it loose
   into the frigid air. It flew like an arrow over a thousand miles
   of frozen waste, and then sped forward over another thousand
   miles of ocean and plain and forests, and one morning entered
   the window of the waiting mistress, and delivered the message
   for which she had been waiting so anxiously. (Text.)

    (2020)


   =Messengers, Business=--See TIME-SAVERS.


   =Meteorites=--See HEAVENLY VISITORS.


   =Meteorological Changes and Crime=--See CRIME, EPIDEMICS OF.


                    METHOD IN RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION

   Mrs. Wesley carried her principle of method and a time-table
   into the realm of religion. She began surprizingly early. “The
   children were early made to distinguish the Sabbath from other
   days, and were soon taught to be still at family prayers, and
   to ask a blessing immediately afterward, which they used to
   do by signs, before they could kneel or speak!” The cells of
   each infantile brain were diligently stored with passages of
   Scripture, hymns, collects, etc. Prayer was woven into the
   fabric of every day’s life. The daily lesson of each child was
   set in a framework of hymns. Later, certain fixt hours were
   assigned to each member of the household, during which the
   mother talked with the particular child for whom that hour was
   set aside.--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (2021)


   =Method in Service=--See SERVICE, METHOD OF.


   =Methods, Imperfect=--See GRAVITATION, LAW OF.


                          METHODS IN RELIGION

   Francis Newman once tried to explain to Dr. Martineau the
   difference between his own religious attitude and that of his
   eminent brother, the cardinal. “It is a matter of faith,” he
   said. “I have faith, and the cardinal has none. The cardinal
   comes to a river, and believes that he can not possibly cross it
   unless he takes a particular boat with a particular name painted
   on it. But I believe that I can swim.” (Text.)--FRANCIS
   GRIBBLE, _The Fortnightly Review_.

    (2022)


   =Mettle that Wins=--See LOADS, BALKING UNDER.


   =Microbes=--See CLEANSING, DIFFICULTY OF.


                          MILITANT EVANGELISM

   Robert Collyer told me the other day of a big-hearted,
   big-fisted old clergyman in Yorkshire who was so determined to
   convert the wild, wicked dwellers on the moors that when they
   refused to come into church on Sunday, he would rush out of his
   pulpit, spring into a crowd of cock-fighters outside the chapel,
   knock some of them down with his brawny fist, collar them, drag
   them in, and then administer gospel truths right and left to the
   rascals.--JAMES T. FIELDS.

    (2023)


                              MILITARISM

This is merely what eight years’ increase in army and navy has cost the
American people:

   Average annual cost of army and navy for the eight years
   preceding the Spanish War (1890–1898), $51,500,000.

   Average annual cost of army and navy for the eight years since
   the Spanish War (1902–1910), $185,400,000.

   Average yearly increase in the latter period as compared with
   the former, $134,000,000, making a total increase in eight years
   of $1,072,000,000, or 360 per cent.

   This eight-year increase exceeds the national debt by
   $158,000,000.

   It exceeds the entire budget of the United States for 1910.

   It is twice as much as the highest estimate of carrying out the
   deep water-ways projects.

   It is nearly three times the estimated cost of replanting the
   56,000,000 acres of denuded forest land in the United States.

   It is three times the estimated cost of the Panama Canal,
   including purchase price from the French company.

   It is three times the cost of carrying out the whole irrigation
   program contemplated within a generation.

   It is probably enough to banish tuberculosis from the United
   States within a reasonable time, if efficiently used to arouse
   and assist the people in their fight against this dread disease.
   More than 160,000 are dying yearly from this cause.

   It is $60 for every family in the United States.

   It lays a yearly tax of 1¼ per cent on the total wages paid in
   the United States, on the supposition that wages average $600 to
   the family; and we pay it in the higher price of our goods.

   Interest on this sum at 4 per cent would give an income of
   $1,000 a year forever to 42,880 families--a city of 200,000.

   The increase for 190–09 is only $13,000,000 less than all the
   gifts to charities, libraries, educational institutions, and
   other public causes in 1909, which reached the vast total of
   $185,000,000.

   The cost of a battleship would build a macadam road of approved
   construction between the cities of Chicago and New York.

   The Congressional Library at Washington, the finest library
   building in the world, was built for little over half the cost
   of a battleship, and is maintained for three-fourths the cost of
   keeping her afloat.

   Fifty manual training-schools could be built and equipped with
   necessary tools and appliances for the cost of a battleship,
   teaching the rudiments of a trade to 75,000 young people each
   year.

   The cost of a few battleships wisely spent in the fight
   against tuberculosis in New York City, coupled with proper
   legislation and cooperation of the people, would probably render
   this disease as rare in a generation or two as is smallpox
   to-day.--By courtesy of the Peace Society.

    (2024)

   See ARMIES OF THE WORLD, NAVAL POWERS AND ARMAMENTS; NAVIES OF THE
     WORLD; WAR AND RACIAL FERTILITY.

  [Illustration: UNITED STATES S. S. NORTH DAKOTA]

   Forty Y. M. C. A. buildings could be built and equipped
   throughout for the cost of a battleship, each building
   accommodating the young men in a city of 200,000 people.

   One 26,000-ton battleship ($12,000,000) + 20 years’ upkeep at
   $800,000 a year,--$28,000,000: Then the junk heap.

   $28,000,000: 1,400 churches at $20,000 each, 7,000 farms at
   $4,000 each, a college education for 14,000 men or women at $500
   a year for four years.

For past wars and preparation for war, $423,000,000, or 70 per cent.

Left for other purposes, $181,000,000, or 30 per cent.

  [Illustration: THE WAY OF MILITARISM

   Which benefits a few trusts and contractors and gives temporary
   and uneconomical employment, but which is rapidly impoverishing
   the nations.

  Ordinary income of the United States for 1908–09, $604,000,000.]

   Our generation has not accepted Christ’s ideal of
   non-resistance, gentleness and humility. We believe in
   _Dreadnaughts_ and armed regiments. At our conferences in The
   Hague and Mohonk we plead for peace; at our capitals we vote
   uncounted millions for cannon and bombshells. Disclaiming
   hypocrisy, we excuse ourselves by saying that the best way to
   preserve peace is to prepare for war, when in our hearts we know
   that a man who carries a concealed revolver in his pocket is a
   thousand times more likely to slay any chance enemy than if he
   had left his weapon at home or hurled it into the sea. We admire
   and love the Quaker--but we want him to stay in Philadelphia;
   the man we send to Washington must argue for us that a nation
   needs a war about once in thirty years.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2025)


   =Military Sagacity=--See RETREAT DISCOURAGED.


   =Millennial Possibilities=--See FUTURE WELFARE.


   =Mind=--See MASTERY.


                             MIND-ACTIVITY

Dr. R. S. Storrs points out the activity of the mind and its
persistence under great limitations in these words:

   A universal spasmodic disease masters the organs of locomotion,
   so that the arm or the limb will remain in any posture,
   however unnatural, in which it is placed. The senses are
   usually entirely sealed, of no more avail than if they were
   obliterated. And the continued pulsation, with the warmth
   which this maintains in the system, are the only indications
   that life remains. Yet there have been authentic instances in
   which the mind, thus shrouded from sight, instead of being
   destroyed, impaired, or even limited, in its central force,
   has been stimulated to a more amazing activity, by being thus
   crowded, as it were, into a corner of its realm; and has feared
   and agonized, or has triumphed and exulted, with a vividness of
   experience altogether unaccustomed.

    (2026)


   =Mind and Will Conquering Circumstances=--See PHYSICAL WEAKNESS
      OVERCOME.


                             MIND-HEALING

   The story is told of a woman who called on a physician for
   nervous trouble. She was a woman whose ailments had worried
   and excited her to such a degree that she was threatened with
   nervous prostration. Said the doctor: “Madam, what you need is
   to read your Bible more.” She promptly began to take offense at
   the strange prescription. He told her he meant it. “Go home and
   read your Bible an hour a day; then come back to me a month from
   to-day.” She thought over the matter, recalled the fact that tho
   she was a professing Christian she had been neglecting to read
   her Bible, and so she decided to take his advice. At the end of
   the month she came back to the office a well woman. She felt
   like a different person. She needed no medicine. (Text.)

    (2027)


                            MIND, THE HUMAN

   In the yard stands the locomotive. It is a masterpiece of the
   mechanic’s art. Burnished and lubricated journals fit in boxes
   and connecting-rods are welded to connection. Valves, pistons
   and wheels are all ready for the harmonious interplay which
   makes this mass of metal a thing of power. The twin rails beckon
   it to be on its way; the machine itself pants impatiently;
   impulsively sobs the pop-valve. But the locomotive waits, must
   wait for the driver’s will. Not stoutest boiler or greatest head
   of steam can draw the train until the man reveals his mind to
   the locomotive.--T. C. MCCLELLAND.

    (2028)


                            MINIATURE WORK

   I have to-day a paper at home, as long as half my hand, on which
   was photographed the whole contents of a London newspaper. It
   was put under a dove’s wing, and sent into Paris, where they
   enlarged it, and read the news.--WENDELL PHILLIPS.

    (2029)


   =Minister, The Little=--See CHILD RELIGION.


                    MINISTRY, DIFFICULTIES OF THE

It is sometimes in order for the members of one profession to plume
themselves at the expense of another. Especially does it seem to be
the thought at times that the ministry is peculiarly a profession of
ease. That there is a truer and deeper view, however, is seen in the
following:

   A barrister, accustomed to practise in criminal courts, made
   sneering remarks concerning preachers. “If,” said he, “I were
   to address a jury in the average way you clergymen do I should
   never get a conviction.” The elderly clergyman to whom he spoke,
   replied: “If you had to address the same jury 104 times a year,
   and your object was not to get them to give a verdict against
   some other person--which they might be willing to do--but to
   induce them to convict themselves, I doubt if you would do any
   better than we do.” Silence on the part of the barrister. (Text.)

    (2030)


                        MINUTE, IMPORTANCE OF A

    ’Twas only a minute that would not stay,
      But how many noticed its flight?
    And yet for one it parted the way,
      Betwixt life’s bloom and its blight.

    It pointed the new-born baby’s breath,
      First felt on the mother’s breast;
    For another it sounded the summons of death
      And a weary one gone to his rest.

    At that moment two souls were together wed
      Till death should call them apart;
    Another to virtue bowed his head
      And consecrated his heart.

    Ah! big was the moment that flitted away,
    And hardly one noticed its flight;
    And hundreds of minutes make up the day,
    And hundreds are lost in the night.

    --BENJAMIN REYNOLDS BULKELEY, _New England Magazine_.

    (2031)


                               MIRACLES

   Whether the miracles of Jesus really happened or are merely
   legendary I do not know, and, if I may say it without
   irreverence, I do not care. They are not necessary to my
   Christianity, which, to say the truth, can better do without
   them. What is it to me, and to such as me, whether, in the
   little village of Bethany, Jesus did or did not raise to life
   one poor dead body, when I know that in the centuries since he
   has raised to life millions of dead souls? And what, after all,
   does it matter whether on the shores of the lake of Galilee on
   a late afternoon nearly two thousand years ago he gave one meal
   to five thousand persons by feeding them with a few loaves and
   fishes, when I know that all the world over, every day, every
   night, this very night, he is feeding countless millions of the
   poor, the opprest and the broken-hearted, making them forget
   their hunger and thirst and all the sufferings of their earthly
   existence in the bread of the Spirit that is the bread of
   life?--HALL CAINE, _Christian Commonwealth_.

    (2032)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Some wealthy Africans, with whom Kruger was traveling in the
   desert, found the food-hampers gone astray. “You are a great
   believer in miracles, Oom Paul,” said one of them. “Why can’t
   you arrange for heaven to send me victuals by the crows, as they
   were sent by the ravens to Elijah.” “Because,” said Oom, dryly,
   “Elijah was a prophet with a mission; you are a fool with an
   appetite.”

    (2033)


                     MIRACLES, EVIDENTIAL VALUE OF

Whatever effect or lack of effect miracles have on modern minds, the
following account shows that they are of first value to simple-minded
natives. The writer is Sophie B. Titterington:

   When the rumor flew around Aniwa that “Missi” (Dr. John G.
   Paton), was trying to dig water out of the ground, the old
   Christian chief tenderly labored with him. “Oh, Missi, your head
   is going wrong. Don’t let our people hear you talking about
   going down into the earth for rain, or they will never listen to
   your word, or believe you again.”

   But the island was greatly in need of good water, and Dr. Paton
   dug away at the well, single-handed. It was hard, weary work.
   He hired some of the natives with fish-hooks to get out three
   pailfuls each, still doing most of the heavy work himself.
   But when the well was twelve feet deep, one side of it caved
   in. This gave the loving, troubled old chief another plea. He
   represented that if Missi had been in the hole that night, he
   would have been killed, and an English warship would have come
   to find out what had happened to the white man. They would not
   believe that Missi had gone into that hole of his own accord,
   but would punish them for his supposed murder.

   When he was thirty feet down the earth became damp. That evening
   he said to the old chief with earnest solemnity, “I think that
   Jehovah God will give us water to-morrow from that hole.”

   “No, Missi,” the faithful old fellow sighed. “You will never get
   rain coming up from the earth in Aniwa. We expect daily, if you
   reach water, to see you drop into the sea where the sharks will
   eat you!”

   At daybreak. Dr. Paton went down and made a little hole in the
   center of the bottom of his well. He says: “I trembled in every
   limb when the water rushed up and began to fill the hole. Muddy
   tho it was, I eagerly tasted it, and the little cup almost dropt
   from my hand in sheer joy, and I fell upon my knees in that
   muddy bottom to praise the Lord. It was water! It was living
   water from Jehovah’s well!”

   With superstitious fear the people gazed upon the jugful their
   Missi carried up. The old chief shook it, touched it, tasted it.
   “Rain! rain. Yes, it is rain!”

   The back of heathenism was broken. A new order of things
   began in Aniwa. Family prayers and reverence for the Sabbath
   spontaneously grew up. The wonderful transformation which was
   wrought in the Aniwans became household talk all over the
   world. All this was hastened because the ambassador of Jehovah
   God had done what none of the gods of the islanders could have
   done--brought up rain from the ground! (Text.)

    (2034)


   =Mirror, The, as a Revealer=--See SELF-INSPECTION.


                            MISCALCULATION

   What is said to be the largest plow in the world was made
   some years ago at Bakersfield, Cal. This plow was the result
   of the ingenuity of a ranch superintendent, who had authority
   to make improvements, but not to introduce steam-plows. The
   superintendent had grown very tired of preparing three thousand
   acres of land for wheat with ordinary nine- or twelve-inch plows
   drawn by two horses.

   He argued that if two horses could pull a twelve-inch plow,
   six horses could pull a plow thirty-six inches wide, and that
   eight horses could pull a plow forty-eight inches wide. He made
   the calculations carefully, and, being clever with his pencil,
   made drawings also, and sent for blacksmiths and machinists to
   construct a plow on his principle.

   Some simple folk told him that his great plow would not work,
   but they contented themselves with saying this dogmatically,
   without giving any mathematical reason therefore. So the
   superintendent went on with his plans.

   The blacksmiths and machinists finished the plow in due time.
   The share was made to cut a fifty-inch furrow; the top of it
   reached five feet above the ground, to give room to throw the
   earth. The beam was more than a foot thick; but the machine was
   constructed to run between two great wheels, so that it could be
   turned around easily; and on the axle between these wheels was
   the seat for the man who was to drive the ten horses which were
   hitched to it.

   The plow was brought to the great field, the ten horses were
   attached to it, the handles were raised, the driver mounted his
   seat, and the team was started. But as soon as the share struck
   well into the ground the horses stopt short. They were stuck
   fast. And yet the plow had not gone too deeply into the earth.
   But it was evident that they could not pull the plow. More
   horses were brought out, but not until fifty were attached did
   the plow move along.

   Even then it required four men to hold the handles, in order to
   keep the plow in the furrow. It was an economic failure.

   Then the superintendent, through the intervention of some one
   who was a better mathematician than he, learned that he should
   have cubed the capacity of his twelve-inch plow every time he
   doubled the width of it.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (2035)


                          MISER, A WORTHLESS

   A certain John Hopkins, familiarly known in his day for his
   rapacity as “Vulture Hopkins,” lived a worthless life but died
   possest of a million and a half dollars, left so as not to be
   inherited until after the second generation, so that, as he
   said, “his heirs would be as long spending it as he had been in
   getting it.” Pope preserved his memory in this couplet:

    “When Hopkins dies a thousand lights attend
    The wretch who, living, saved a candle’s end.”

Such a life is properly to be condemned, altho its results may be
useful to a subsequent generation.

    (2036)


   =Miserliness=--See MAMMON-WORSHIP; SAVING DISAPPROVED.


                          MISERY AN EDUCATOR

   How often I had traced the boy who had robbed the box-car
   with unerring precision to the big, lawless business man who
   controlled or directed a trust, debauched a legislature, bought
   a senatorship or united with the gamblers and dive-keepers to
   steal a public franchise. Why was there so much kindness and so
   little justice? Why were men good to children, to churches and
   universities, and still so unjust? And when the other fights
   were won, the fights for the playgrounds, the detention home
   school, the juvenile court and all it implies, the biggest fight
   of all was yet ahead. But that little fight helped us to see the
   necessity for the big fight. We were being educated through the
   misery and misfortune of the children.--BEN B. LINDSEY,
   _The Survey_.

    (2037)


                       MISERY EXCITING SYMPATHY

   The subjects which especially awakened the pencil of Thomas
   Rowlandson were the denizens of the squalid quarters of London.
   Muther says of him: “The cry of misery rising from the pavement
   of great cities had been first heard by Rowlandson, and the
   pages on which he drew the poor of London are a living dance of
   death of the most ghastly veracity.” (Text.)

    (2038)


   =Misfortune=--See DESIRES INORDINATE.


   =Misfortune, Meeting=--See NATURE, ENJOYMENT OF.


                      MISFORTUNE, SUPERIORITY TO

   The Caucasian mountaineers have this proverb: “Heroism is
   endurance for one moment more.” The fact is recognized that the
   human spirit, with its dominating force, the will, may be and
   ought to be superior to all bodily sensations and accidents of
   environment. In a recent psychological story called “My Friend
   Will,” Charles F. Lummis pays a striking tribute to the power
   of the human mind over accident and chance, when he makes his
   “friend Will” say: “I am bigger than anything that can happen
   to me; all those things--sorrow, misfortune and suffering--are
   outside my door. I’m in the house and I’ve got the key!” (Text.)

    (2039)


   =Misrepresentation Rebuked=--See HONESTY IN BUSINESS.


                             MISSION FRUIT

   A young married woman, wife of a Mohammedan, was lying ill in
   one of the mission hospitals in North India. While there she
   was daily taught of the love and compassion of the Savior,
   and she soon desired to know and serve Him. Her husband was
   told of her wish and was exceedingly angry and had her removed
   immediately from the hospital. He prohibited the mission ladies
   from visiting her. But just before the conveyance came to take
   her away she called the doctor and missionary to her and said:
   “I can be taken away from you, but not from Christ, for I can
   pray to Him even behind the purdah, but I want you to remember
   my desire. You know Jesus well, I only know Him a little; when
   you meet me at the judgment seat of heaven, just go to Him and
   tell Him who I am and how anxious I was to publicly confess Him
   on earth. Make it plain to Him, please.”

    (2040)

       *       *       *       *       *

   There is an old Indian legend that a poor man threw a bud of
   charity into Buddha’s bowl and it blossomed into a thousand
   flowers. So we throw the bud of Christian truth into isolated
   and scattered communities, into the far-off lands, and lo, it
   bursts forth into a thousand fragrant blossoms and bears fruit
   in every activity of human life.--J. A. HUNTLEY.

    (2041)

       *       *       *       *       *

The first fruits of the gospel on mission fields are growing and
ripening by the river of the water of life, day by day. No more weighty
proof of the success of missions can be found than the transformation
of individual character and the every-day life.

   One of the Chinese brethren is a ferryman, poor in money,
   but rich in faith. One evening he ferried a passenger over
   the river, who had a lot of things tied up in a cloth. After
   throwing the cash for his fare into the bottom of the boat, the
   man departed hurriedly. The Christian went to pick up the money,
   and found a pair of gold bracelets, worth $400, which the man
   had dropt. He tied up his boat and tried to find the man, but
   he was lost in the crowd. The boatman went home much troubled.
   According to Chinese law, he could keep them if unclaimed. After
   prayer, he decided to go to the chapel. The preacher heard
   the story. Said he: “Your passenger doubtless was a robber,
   and these things have been stolen. I will go with you to the
   mandarin, and we will give the bracelets up to him. A search
   will be made, and the owner found.”

   This was done, and the mandarin said: “Well, I have never seen
   or heard anything like this. Your religion must be a true
   religion, and your God a living God, thus to influence a poor
   man to give up wealth for conscience’s sake.” (Text.)

    (2042)

   See TRANSFORMATION.


                            MISSION SURGERY

On many fields missionaries have found that ministry to the ills of the
body has assisted in the conversion of souls. Thus in Formosa:

   Dr. Mackay, a well-known medical missionary, has found it a help
   to his work to minister to bodily ills. He extracted twenty-one
   thousand teeth in twenty-one years, and thirty-nine thousand in
   all, and has dispensed considerable medicine. Extracting teeth
   is cheaper than dealing out medicine, for beyond the instrument
   there is no outlay. The natives have lost all faith in their old
   doctors.--PIERSON, “The Miracles of Missions.”

    (2043)


   =Mission Work=--See SERVICE WITH HARDSHIP.


                         MISSIONARIES, MEDICAL

   Africa has 135,000,000 inhabitants and 75 medical missionaries.

   India has 300,000,000 inhabitants and 200 medical missionaries.

   China has 350,000,000 inhabitants and 241 medical missionaries.

   Japan has 42,000,000 inhabitants and 15 medical missionaries.

   Turkey has 22,000,000 inhabitants and 38 medical missionaries.

   Persia has 9,000,000 inhabitants and 11 medical missionaries.

   Burmah has 7,500,000 inhabitants and 9 medical missionaries.

   India alone contains 66,300 lunatics, 153,000 deaf and dumb,
   354,000 blind and 400,000 lepers.

   All missionary hospitals (Protestant) in the world can
   accommodate 100,000 in-patients and 2,500,000 outpatients
   annually.

These facts point to the need of men and means in order that the world
may be Christianized.

    (2044)

   See MEDICAL MISSIONS.


                        MISSIONARIES’ MISTAKES

Prof. Harlan P. Beach, in an address before the Fifth International
convention of the Student Volunteer Movement for foreign missions on
the subject “Efficiency is limited and the kingdom is retarded by
violating reasonable standards of taste or propriety,” said:

   In speaking on this subject, I can show its importance, perhaps,
   by an incident which happened about twenty years ago near
   Peking. One night I heard a loud knocking at the outer gate of
   our compound. The gatekeeper went out and was astonished to
   see a dust-laden, wobegone new missionary. He had arrived at
   Tientsin, his station, about four days before. He found himself
   in a new community, where he could not get his bearings, and
   had come to our station to learn what to do from two of our
   prominent missionaries. I was glad to meet the newcomer, but
   I said, “Why did you arrive so late?” “Well,” he replied, “I
   couldn’t help it.” I looked at his cart; he had three mules
   attached to it tandem by a great tangle of ropes. He added: “The
   trouble is, I had hardly gotten started from Tientsin when this
   front mule, who is young, took a notion that he would desert the
   beaten track. He left the roadway suddenly before the carter
   could prevent it and made a dash straight for a china-shop.
   There was a terrific crash. The ropes got caught between the
   legs of the second mule and dragged him over into a great lot of
   jars which went to pieces, and even the wheel-mule, hemmed in by
   the vast timbers that do duty as shafts in China, yielding to
   the shock, crashed into the china-shop.” It took a long time to
   get that difficulty righted, and hence he was late.

   This incident illustrates my subject in six respects: (1)
   Missionaries, like those mules, make many breaks; (2) they
   usually make them at the start; (3) the breaks are generally
   due to ignorance, or to wilfulness; (4) the work of missions
   is retarded greatly by these mistakes, just as my friend was
   delayed until late that night; (5) mistakes of missionaries
   involve their associates, as the action of this frisky front
   mule brought the whole outfit into disrepute; (6) what is most
   important of all, they bring loss to superiors. Those mules were
   mere animals, but there was a carter there and also my friend,
   who was anxious to hasten the coming of the kingdom that he
   took the trip at great inconvenience for that very purpose. Tho
   we missionaries are only rarely mules, we are all and always
   servants of a great Master, and are retarding His cause and
   bringing reproach upon His name and upon the Church of God, if
   we are guilty of such breaches of etiquette as are suggested by
   this parable.

    (2045)


                     MISSIONARY, A, IN THE MAKING

   At the age of ten, David Livingstone went to work in the cotton
   factory as a piecer, and after some years was promoted to be a
   spinner. The first half-crown he earned he gave to his mother.
   With part of his first week’s wages he bought a Latin text-book
   and studied that language with ardor in an evening class between
   eight and ten. He had to be in the factory at six in the morning
   and his work ended at eight at night. But by working at Latin
   until midnight he mastered Vergil and Horace by the time he was
   sixteen. He used to read in the factory by putting the book on
   the spinning-jenny so that he could catch a sentence at a time
   as he passed at his work. He was fond of botany and geology and
   zoology, and when he could get out would scour the country for
   specimens.--ROBERT E. SPEER, “Servants of the King.”

    (2046)


                         MISSIONARY, A LITTLE

   “I can not afford it,” said John Hale, the rich farmer, when
   asked to give to the cause of missions.

   Harry, his wide-awake grandson, was grieved and indignant.

   “But the poor heathen,” he replied; “is it not too bad they can
   not have churches and schoolhouses and books?”

   “What do you know about the heathen?” exclaimed the old man
   testily. “Do you wish me to give away my hard earnings? I tell
   you, I can not afford it.”

   But Harry was well posted in missionary intelligence, and day
   after day puzzled his curly head with plans for extracting
   money for the noble cause from his unwilling relative. At last,
   seizing an opportunity when his grandfather was in a good humor
   over the election news, he said: “Grandfather, if you do not
   feel able to give money to the missionary board, will you give a
   potato?”

   “A potato?” ejaculated Mr. Hale, looking up from his paper.

   “Yes, sir; and land enough to plant it in, and what it produces
   for four years?”

   “Oh, yes!” replied the unsuspecting grandparent, settling his
   glasses on his calculating nose in such a way that showed he was
   glad to escape on such cheap terms from the lad’s persecution.

   Harry planted the potato, and it rewarded him the first year
   by producing nine; these, the following season, became a peck;
   the next, seven and a half bushels, and when the fourth harvest
   came, lo, the potato had increased to seventy bushels. And,
   when sold, the amount realized was put with a glad heart into
   the treasury of the Lord. Even the aged farmer exclaimed: “Why,
   I did not feel that donation in the least! And, Harry, I’ve
   been thinking that if there were a little missionary like you
   in every house, and each one got a potato, or something else
   as productive, for the cause, there would be quite a large sum
   gathered.”--_Friend for Boys and Girls._

    (2047)


                      MISSIONARY ACCOMPLISHMENTS

   When the American missionaries came to the Sandwich Islands,
   they struck off the shackles from the whole race, breaking the
   power of the kings and chiefs. They set the common man free,
   elevated his wife to a position of equality with him, and gave a
   piece of land to each to hold forever. They set up schools and
   churches, and imbued the people with the spirit of the Christian
   religion. If they had had the power to augment the capacities of
   the people, they could have made them perfect; and they would
   have done it, no doubt.

   The missionaries taught the whole nation to read and write,
   with facility, in the native tongue. I don’t suppose there is
   to-day a single uneducated person above eight years of age
   in the Sandwich Islands! It is the best educated country in
   the world, I believe. That has been all done by the American
   missionaries. And in a large degree it was paid for by the
   American Sunday-school children with their pennies. I know that
   I contributed.--SAMUEL L. CLEMENS.

    (2048)


                         MISSIONARY ADAPTATION

   In 1881 James Robertson left the pastorate to accept the newly
   created post of superintendent of home missions for Manitoba and
   the Northwest. He set off at once on his first missionary tour,
   driving two thousand miles, at first through heat and dust and
   rain and then through frosts and blizzards. He preached where
   he could, and was not to be discouraged by any situation. Once,
   coming to a settlement late on a Saturday evening, where the
   largest building was the hotel and the largest room the bar, he
   inquired of the hotel man:

   “Is there any place where I can hold a service to-morrow?”
   “Service?” “Yes, a preaching service.” “Preaching? Oh, yes, I’ll
   get you one,” he replied with genial heartiness. Next day Mr.
   Robertson came into the bar, which was crowded with men. “Well,
   have you found a room for my service?” he inquired of his
   genial host. “Here you are, boss, right here. Get in behind that
   bar and here’s your crowd. Give it to ’em. God knows they need
   it.”

   Mr. Robertson caught the wink intended for the boys only. Behind
   the bar were bottles and kegs and other implements of the trade;
   before it men standing up for their drinks, chaffing, laughing,
   swearing. The atmosphere could hardly be called congenial,
   but the missionary was “on to his job,” as the boys afterward
   admiringly said. He gave out a hymn. Some of the men took off
   their hats and joined in the singing, one or two whistling the
   accompaniment. As he was getting into his sermon one of the men,
   evidently the smart one of the company, broke in:

   “Say, boss,” he drawled, “I like yer nerve, but I don’t believe
   yer talk.” “All right,” replied Mr. Robertson, “give me a
   chance. When I get through you can ask any questions you like.
   If I can I will answer them; if I can’t I’ll do my best.”

   The reply appealed to the sense of fair play in the crowd. They
   speedily shut up their companion and told the missionary to
   “fire ahead,” which he did, and to such good purpose that when
   he had finished there was no one ready to gibe or question.
   After the service was closed, however, one of them observed
   earnestly: “I believe every word you said, sir. I haven’t heard
   anything like that since I was a kid, from my Sunday-school
   teacher. I guess I gave her a pretty hard time. But look here,
   can’t you send us a missionary for ourselves? We’ll chip in,
   won’t we, boys?”--ROBERT E. SPEER, “Servants of the
   King.”

    (2049)


   =Missionary Beginnings=--See ONE, WINNING.


                            MISSIONARY CALL

   Friends were trying to dissuade one whose ancestors were not
   three generations out of cannibalism from going as a missionary
   to one of the savage islands of Polynesia. They recounted all
   the hardships and dangers to be encountered. “Are there men
   there?” asked the volunteer.

   “Men? Yes; horrible cannibals, who will probably kill you and
   eat you.”

   “That settles it!” was the sublime rejoinder. “That settles it!
   Wherever there are men, there missionaries are bound to go!”

    (2050)


                         MISSIONARY ENTERPRISE

   On October 15, 1819, in the Park Street Church, Boston, a
   mission to the Hawaiian Islands was organized with the following
   members: Messrs. Bingham and Thurston, ministers; Messrs.
   Whitney and Ruddles, teachers; Thomas Holman, physician; Elisha
   Loomis, printer; Daniel Chamberlain, farmer, together with their
   wives, and three Hawaiian young men from the Cornwall Missionary
   School. These seventeen went forth to erect a Christian
   civilization upon pagan shores, for they represented the Church,
   the common school, the printing-press, the medicine-chest, and
   the implements of agriculture. They set sail from Boston October
   23, 1819, and reached the Hawaiian coast March 31, 1820, after
   somewhat more than five months.--PIERSON, “The Miracles
   of Missions.”

    (2051)


   =Missionary Giving=--See CROWNING CHRIST.


   =Missionary Good Sense=--See DIPLOMAT, A, AND MISSIONS.


                         MISSIONARY LITERATURE

   There came into our office the other day a man who had only
   recently closed a very successful missionary pastorate of
   several years to become the minister of a large church which
   was not so strongly missionary. He ignored that fact, however,
   and began to employ his former methods, which included the
   observance of the monthly concert of prayer for missions. He
   made out his program, based on the missionary magazine of his
   denomination, and as he met one after another of those whom
   he had assigned to help him, he gave them their parts. One of
   the prominent members of the church he called to his study and
   said to him, “I want you to read such and such an article in
   your magazine and give us the gist of it at the next missionary
   meeting.” “My magazine,” replied the man. “I haven’t--I don’t
   take any magazine with that article in it.” “What, don’t you
   take the missionary magazine? Just look at it,” said he, laying
   it out before him. “Oh, is that it? Never saw it before. How
   much is it? Thirty-five cents? I guess if you are going to have
   this concert business every month, I might as well subscribe
   for it and have my own copy. Looks pretty good, too, doesn’t
   it? Didn’t know missions could be drest up so well. Cover looks
   like one of our regular magazines.” This pastor knows how to do
   it. Other wise pastors will mention the best missionary books;
   they will see that their people know of the latest missionary
   literature.--F. P. HAGGARD, “Student Volunteer
   Movement,” 1906.

    (2052)


                         MISSIONARY MARTYRDOM

   A convert from Islam took advantage of the Ameer’s visit to
   Kandahar and crossed the frontier, unbidden and uninvited, to
   preach Christianity in Afghanistan. He was arrested, taken
   before the Ameer, and sent in chains to Kabul, but was murdered
   before reaching there. He was named Abdul Karim, and was at
   one time one of the workers at Bannu. Mrs. Pennell wrote that
   when he was taken prisoner and refused to repeat the “Kalima,”
   saying he was a Christian, he was taken to Kandahar. The
   Ameer questioned him, and on his again refusing to repeat the
   “Kalima,” and saying he had come to preach the gospel, he was
   ordered to be flogged, put in chains, and to be taken to Kabul,
   where he was to await the return of the Ameer, and unless he
   changed his mind would get due punishment.

   Heavily chained hand and foot, he set out with an escort for
   Kabul; that at the villages he was spat upon, and the hairs of
   his beard pulled out--and at length the poor, weary sufferer, at
   a village before reaching Kabul, was murdered. (Text.)

    (2053)


   =Missionary Power=--See GOD IN MISSIONS.


                           MISSIONARY PRAYER

The late Joseph Cook is the author of this prayer in verse for the
spread and triumph of God’s kingdom:

    One field the wheeling world,
      Vast furrows open lie;
    Broadcast let seed be hurled
      By us before we die.
        Winds, east or west,
          Let no tares fall;
        Wide waft the best;
          God winnow all.

    Heaven hath a single sun,
      All gates swing open wide;
    All lands at last are one,
      And seas no more divide.
        In every zone,
          Arise and shine;
        Earth’s only throne,
          Our God, be Thine.

    On every desert rain,
    Make green earth’s flintiest sands;
    Above the land and main
      Reveal Thy pierced hands.
        Thy cross heaven wins;
          Lift it on high;
        And in his sins
          Let no man die.

    (2054)


   =Missionary Preaching=--See TEXT, POWER OF A.


                          MISSIONARY RESULTS

   Charles Darwin, the scientist, described the Terra Del Fuegans
   as the most degraded specimens of humanity he had ever seen.
   He considered them beyond the reach of civilization. The
   missionaries carried the gospel to them, and Darwin, seeing the
   change wrought, said with great frankness and willing publicity,
   “Truly the missionary’s message is a magician’s wand.”

    (2055)

       *       *       *       *       *

Rev. Egerton R. Young, a missionary among the Indians of Canada, tells
of an obdurate old man whose heart had been touched by the missionary
whose ministrations had brought his child back to health:

   He attended an open-air meeting standing at first a quarter of a
   mile off. At the next meeting he drew a bit nearer, then nearer
   still. Six weeks later he was among the circle kneeling at the
   foot of the cross, making his confession. “Missionary,” he said,
   “I was a fool, but now I have got the moss out of my ears, and
   the sand out of my eyes, and I see clearly, and I hear all
   right. I am so glad I came.”

   Was it not of such scenes as these that the prophet was thinking
   when he wrote, “The eyes of the blind shall be opened and the
   ears of the deaf unstopt.” (Text.)

    (2056)

   See EVIL TURNED TO GOOD.


                         MISSIONARY SACRIFICE

   San Quala was one of the first converts among the degraded
   Karens. From the lowest state the gospel raised him, with a
   rapidity that no civilization ever knew, to a noble Christian
   manhood. His first impulse was to tell others of Jesus. He
   helped to translate the Bible into the Karen tongue, for fifteen
   years guided the missionaries through the jungles, and then
   himself began to preach and to plant new churches. In one year
   he had formed nine, with 741 converts; in less than three years
   the nine had grown to thirty, with 2,000 converts. He did his
   work without salary, and when the English Government offered him
   a position, with large compensation, he at once declined, tho
   his poverty was such as prevented him from taking his wife with
   him in his missionary tours.--PIERSON, “The Miracles of
   Missions.”

    (2057)

   See SACRIFICE FOR RELIGION.


   =Missionary’s Gallant Action=--See COURAGE, CHRISTIAN.


   =Missionary’s Liberation=--See INTERVENTION, DIVINE.


                         MISSIONARY TESTIMONY

Mr. Darwin was not regarded as a Christian, but he had the greatest
respect for good in Christianity, and was candid enough to acknowledge
it. This is the way in which he answered some shallow critics of
foreign missionaries:

   They forget, or will not remember, that human sacrifice and
   the power of an idolatrous priesthood; a system of profligacy
   unparalleled in any other part of the world; infanticide, a
   consequence of that system; bloody wars where the conquerors
   spared neither women nor children--that all these things
   have been abolished, and that dishonesty, intemperance, and
   licentiousness have been greatly reduced by the introduction
   of Christianity. For a voyager to forget these things is a
   base ingratitude; for should he chance to be at the point of
   shipwreck on some unknown coast, he will most devoutly pray that
   the lesson of the missionary may have extended thus far.

    (2058)

       *       *       *       *       *

F. A. McKenzie, the well-known foreign correspondent of the London
_Mail_, says, in the London _Christian World_:

   A stranger stopt me, one day. “I can not understand,” said he,
   “why you, a newspaper man, should advocate missionary work; it
   is not your business. Why do you meddle with it?”

   “I do so because I am a Christian imperialist,” I replied. “The
   white man’s civilization is the best the world has seen, and the
   white man’s civilization is rooted in Christianity. I know that
   every missionary is an active campaigner, not merely for a new
   theology, but also for a new life, based on the foundation-stone
   of our civilization--the cross. I want the white man’s ideas to
   triumph not for the glory of the whites, but for the betterment
   of woman-life and child-life throughout the world.”

    (2059)


   =Missionary Work=--See SONG, EFFECTIVE.


   =Missionary Work Admired by Atheist=--See ATHEIST’S GIFT TO
      MISSIONS.


                        MISSIONARY WORK AT HOME

   Whitefield found himself in the presence of what seemed an
   urgent and overwhelming call to preach. Here were the Kingswood
   miners, a community ignorant, vicious, forgotten, who, beyond
   all others, needed the care and teaching of the Christian
   Church, and yet were left completely outside, not merely of its
   agencies, but even of its very remembrance. When Whitefield
   was setting out for America some wise and keen-sighted friend
   said to him, “If you have a mind to convert Indians, there are
   colliers enough in Kingswood.”--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley
   and His Century.”

    (2060)


                       MISSIONARY WORK, VALUE OF

Belle M. Brain tells the following in her book, “The Transformation of
Hawaii”:

   A visitor to the Hawaiian Islands a few years ago said to King
   Kamehameha V: “Really now, don’t you think things are in a worse
   condition than before the advent of the missionaries?”

   “I leave you to judge,” answered the king. “Since you have come
   into my presence you have broken the ancient law of _tabu_
   in three ways. You walked into my presence instead of crawling,
   you crossed my shadow, you are even now sitting before me. In
   the old days any one of these things would have cost you your
   life.”

    (2061)


                            MISSIONARY ZEAL

If all Christians had the willing zeal of these poor South Sea
islanders, the world would soon be converted to Christ:

   On one occasion Mr. Williams explained the manner in which
   English Christians raised money to send the gospel to the
   heathen, and the natives of Raralonga exprest great regret at
   not having money that they might help in the same good work
   of causing the Word of God to grow. Mr. Williams replied: “If
   you have no money, you have something that takes the place of
   money; something to buy money with”; he then referred to the
   pigs that he had brought to the island on his first visit, and
   which had so increased that every family possest them; and he
   suggested that, if every family in the island would set apart
   a pig for causing the Word of God to grow, and, when the ships
   came, would sell the pigs for money, a large offering might be
   raised. The natives were delighted with the idea, and the next
   morning the squeaking of the pigs, which were receiving the
   “mark of the Lord” in their ears, was heard from one end of the
   settlement to the other.--PIERSON, “The Miracles of
   Missions.”

    (2062)

   See COURAGE, CHRISTIAN.


                               MISSIONS

   Carlyle, in his life of Cromwell, says that he ranks the foreign
   missionary and his convert with the greatest heroes in history.
   It is in his story of Kapiolani. These Christian teachers in the
   South Seas brought the queen to faith in God, and to the new
   ideas of home, school, government and social progress. But the
   people still worshiped the gods whose home was in the crater,
   whose column of fire was on the sky. So the missionary and the
   queen told the people that they would dare the native god. They
   made their way to the foot of the mountain. The people shrieked,
   wept, implored, but these two walked bravely on. They stood
   on the edge of the crater, breathing the sulfurous gases. The
   queen hurled stones into the abyss and shouted her threats and
   denials. When they came down, in safety, superstition was dead.
   Carlyle says that a Christian missionary slew a cult in that
   hour, and that the event will always rank in history with Elijah
   at Baal and the Christian convert who cut down the sacred oak
   of Thor for Germany. But foreign missions have produced scores
   of heroes and heroines like these. The history of missions is
   a sky that is ablaze with light that will shine forever and
   forever.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2063)

   See ADVICE TO MISSIONARIES.

   ATHEIST’S GIFT TO MISSIONS.

   BARBARISM.

   BIBLE FRUIT.

   BIBLE, TESTIMONY TO.

   CALLS AND CONVEYANCES IN THE EAST.

   CATHOLIC FOREIGN MISSIONS.

   CHILD RELIGION, CHANGES WROUGHT BY.

   CHRISTIANITY, PRACTICAL PROOF OF.

   CONFESSIONS.

   CONVERSION.

   CHRISTIAN HONESTY.

   CRUEL GREED.

   CRUELTY, CHINESE.

   DEATH-BED FAITH.

   DECEIT WITH GOD.

   DEMONOLOGY.

   DIPLOMAT, A, AND MISSIONS.

   EMBELLISHMENT OF PREACHING.

   ENLIGHTENMENT.

   EXPECTORATING.

   FAITH AND SUPPORT.

   FALSE INFERENCE.

   FIDELITY, CHRISTIAN.

   FOLLOWING CHRIST.

   FUNCTIONS AND GIFTS IN THE EAST.

   GESTURES AND USE OF HANDS IN THE EAST.

   HARVEST FROM EARLY SOWING.

   HEATHEN RECEPTIVENESS.

   HEATHENDOM.

   HUSBAND AND WIFE, RELATIONS BETWEEN.

   IGNORANCE.

   IGNORANCE, PALLIATIONS OF.

   IMPRESSION BY PRACTISE.

   INADEQUACY OF NON-CHRISTIAN RELIGIONS.

   INDIA, MEDICAL OPPORTUNITIES IN.

   INTELLIGENCE OUTDOING IGNORANCE.

   INVESTMENT RETURN.

   KNOWLEDGE COMPARATIVE.

   LIVING THE GOSPEL.

   MEDICAL MISSIONS.

   MIRACLES, EVIDENTIAL VALUE OF.

   PERSISTENCE IN MISSIONARIES.

   PRAYER FOR COMMON NEEDS.

   PROOF.

   PROPRIETY.

   PROPRIETY, OBSERVING THE RULES OF.

   RAPPORT.

   RELIGIONS CONTRASTED.

   RELIGIOUS INFRACTIONS OF PROPRIETY.

   RESCUE.

   RESERVATION.

   REWARD, THOUSANDFOLD.

   SABBATH, OBSERVING THE.

   SACRIFICE.

   SHUT-IN MISSIONARY WORK.

   SONG, EFFECTIVE.

   SPEECH AND MISSIONARIES.

   STATESMAN ON MISSIONS.

   SURGERY IN KOREA.

   TABOOED TOPICS IN THE EAST.

   TESTIMONY INDISPUTABLE.

   WAY, THE RIGHT.


                          MISSIONS A SUCCESS

   _The Christian Century_ says there are yet a few intellectual
   provincials that scoff at the missionary enterprise, but their
   ignorance is so coming to shame them that their dolorous and
   caustic voices are not often heard. No one but a moral agnostic,
   a medieval race-hater, or a dogmatic religious quack could be
   cynical about an enterprise that shows such amazing success as
   does the missionary propaganda. Here are some figures that show
   the growth of thirteen years:

                             1895.	       1909.

    Total amount given    $13,470,318   $24,613,075
    Given by native
      churches              1,458,464     4,859,605
        (Not included in above.)
    Number of missionaries     11,033	 21,834
    Number of native
      workers                  49,566        92,272
    Number of stations         18,545        43,934
    Number of actual
      church-members        1,030,776     2,097,963
    Number of adherents     2,770,240     4,866,661
    Number of accessions
      to church in year        62,256       135,141
    Number of schools          19,384        29,190
    Number of pupils          860,287     1,413,995

   The grand total of receipts for the great cause is seen to be a
   total of nearly $30,000,000, and the number of workers employed
   to be more than 114,000. In each case the numbers have about
   doubled in the thirteen years, while the number of stations has
   increased in a like proportion. The total of actual communicants
   in the churches has more than doubled, while that of the
   adherents has fallen but little below the same rate of increase.
   As the missions grow older and the life of the communities about
   them is elevated, the number of church-members will advance in
   an increasing ratio over that of adherents. The total number
   now in the Christian communities in the foreign field reaches
   practically 7,000,000.

    (2064)


                         MISSIONS AND COMMERCE

Commenting on the work of the American Board of Commissioners for
Foreign Missions, Dr. N. D. Hillis says:

   What if the American News Company should send a shipload of
   books to Borneo? The people can not read. What if they send
   a shipload of typewriters to western Africa? The people can
   not write. What if you send a cargo of sewing-machines to the
   Hottentots? Well, they do not wear clothes. Wealth comes through
   selling manufactured goods. But savages do not want these
   conveniences. Now, think of what this American Board has done.
   Once they sent out a band to civilize a South Sea island. In
   the band were six carpenters, two blacksmiths, two bricklayers,
   one architect, two tailors, two shoemakers, two weavers,
   two farmers, one physician, four preachers. In forty years
   after they landed, one ship a week unloaded its cargo at that
   port--that tells the whole story. Since then the trade from New
   England ports alone has yielded enough profit to merchants in a
   single year to pay for the entire missionary enterprise.

    (2065)


                           MISSIONS APPROVED

   Jacob A. Riis says that he once “growled against foreign
   missions, like many others who know no better.” He writes that
   now he has learned that “for every dollar you give away to
   convert the heathen abroad, God gives you ten dollars’ worth of
   purpose to deal with your heathen at home.”

    (2066)


                     MISSIONS AS SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS

The influence of a Christian mission in safeguarding a community is set
forth in the following:

   “During the great dock strike September, 1889, which
   shook London to its center, the strikers--gaunt, grim and
   desperate--were marching _en masse_ past the mission premises,
   when a socialistic leader, who stood watching, turned to Mr.
   George Holland (a notable promoter of London missionary work),
   and said, ‘Do you know what keeps these men from sacking
   London?’ ‘What do you mean?’ was the reply. ‘Only this, it
   is the influence of such missions of mercy as yours.’ All
   thoughtful, observant men know that this witness is true.”

    (2067)


   =Missions, Medical=--See RENEWAL.


                         MISSIONS, REASONS FOR

   In the Peninsular war, for every Frenchman killed there was sent
   out by England the weight of a man in lead and eight times his
   weight in iron, not to speak of the cost in blood and treasure.
   In the Indian wars in this country it has sometimes cost on the
   average a million dollars to kill an Indian, while an average
   expenditure of $200 was spent in converting them. There is
   no lack of money nor means to compass the evangelization of
   the world within the present century if there were but the
   spirit of enterprise to dare and undertake for our Redeemer.
   Talleyrand boasted that he “kept his watch ten minutes ahead
   of the rest of mankind.” The Christian Church should surpass
   rather than be surpast by others in her enterprise. The time
   will come when disciples will look back to this age of missions
   with as much surprize as we now look back to those days when
   a learned prelate in the House of Lords, and a defender of
   orthodoxy too, could calmly argue against sending missionaries
   to the Orient! or as we contemplate with amazement speeches
   against the suppression of the slave-trade that have no interest
   to us except as fossils and petrifactions of an antediluvian
   era!--A. T. PIERSON, _Missionary Review of the
   World_.

    (2068)


                         MISSIONS, SUCCESSFUL

   In the course of his cruising in the South Seas, Lord Byron (a
   cousin of the poet), landed on an island of which he thought
   he was the discoverer. Suddenly a canoe appeared. Instead of
   containing armed savages, its occupants were two noble-looking
   men, clothed in cotton shirts and very fine mats. They boarded
   the ship and presented a document from a missionary stating that
   they were native teachers employed in preaching the gospel to
   the people of the island. Lord Byron then went ashore. In the
   center of a wide lawn stood a spacious chapel, and neat native
   cottages peeped through the foliage of banana trees. On entering
   a cottage, he found on a table a portion of the New Testament in
   the native language.

   This story of Lord Byron’s surprize visit was told at an
   overflow meeting in Exeter Hall at the anniversary of the Bible
   Society in 1836. When the speaker had concluded, a stranger
   arose and introduced himself to the audience as the missionary
   who had discovered the island, had made Christianity known to
   its people, and had translated the very portion of the Scripture
   which Lord Byron had found. It was John Williams, the heroic
   missionary of the London Missionary Society, whose noble work
   had drawn those savages from cannibalism and idolatry to the
   worship of the true God.

    (2069)


                        MISSIONS, TESTIMONY TO

Edgar Wallace, the war correspondent of the London _Daily Mail_,
writes in the highest terms of what he saw of the Kongo Balolo
missions. He said in part:

   “No battle I have ever witnessed, no prowess of arms, no
   exhibition of splendid courage in the face of overwhelming
   odds, has inspired me as has the work of these outposts of
   Christianity. People who talk glibly of work in the mission
   field are apt to associate that work merely with house-to-house
   visitations and devotional services and the distribution of
   charity. In reality it means all these things plus the building
   of the houses one visits, building of the church for the
   devotional services, and the inculcation in the native of a
   spirit of manliness which renders charity superfluous.

   Somebody told me there was difficulty in getting men and women
   for the missionary work in Kongoland. Speaking frankly as a man
   of the world, I do not wonder. I would not be a missionary in
   the Kongo for five thousand pounds a year. That is a worldly
   point of view, and it is not a high standpoint. It is a simple
   confession that I prefer the “flesh-pots of Egypt” to the
   self-sacrifice that the missionary life claims. Yet were I a
   good Christian, and were I a missionary hesitating in my choice
   of a field, I would say, with _Desdemona_, “I do perceive
   here a divine duty.”

    (2070)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A singular tribute to missions was that exprest to me by the
   editor of a North China newspaper: “Broadly speaking, it is a
   fact that the only white man who is in China for China’s good
   is the missionary. It never occurs to the average business man
   here that he has any obligation to the Chinese. Yet only on that
   ground can he justify his presence.”--WILLIAM T. ELLIS,
   _Men and Missions_.

    (2071)


   =Mistaken Spiritual Judgment=--See ILLUSION, SPIRITUAL.


                        MISTAKEN VIEW OF CAUSE

   In winter, when millions of city dwellers breathe the air
   of ill-ventilated dwelling-houses, lung infections are more
   frequent than in midsummer, when ventilation is enforced by the
   horrors of stagnant heat. But the coincidence of frosts and
   catarrhs has decided the bias of the popular hypothesis, and in
   sixteen different European languages the word cold has become a
   synonym of an infection which the absolutely conclusive evidence
   of physiological facts proves to be a result of vitiated warm
   indoor air, and to be curable by cold outdoor air. In other
   words, the best remedy has been mistaken for the cause, and as a
   consequence catarrhs are considerably more frequent than all the
   other disorders of the human organism taken together.--FELIX
   OSWALD, _North American Review_.

    (2072)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In October, when the first night-frosts expurgate the atmosphere
   of our Southern swamps, ague and yellow fever subside with a
   suddenness which would certainly have suggested the idea of
   curing climatic diseases by artificial refrigeration, if cold
   had not somehow become the hygienic bugbear of the Caucasian
   race. Gout, rheumatism, indigestion, toothaches and all
   sorts of pulmonary disorders are ascribed to the influence
   of a low temperature, with persistent disregard of the fact
   that the outdoor laborers of the highest latitudes are the
   halest representatives of our species. “Catching cold” is the
   stereotyped explanation for the consequences of our manifold
   sins against the health laws of nature; but the secret of the
   delusion can be traced to the curious mistakes which logicians
   used to sum up under the head of “_post hoc ergo propter
   hoc_” fallacy--the tendency of the human mind to mistake an
   incidental concomitance for a causal connection. Woodpeckers
   pick insects from the trunks of dead trees, and the logic of
   concomitance infers that the decay of the tree has been caused
   by the visits of the birds, which in our Southern States
   are known as “sap-suckers.” Young frogs emerge from their
   hiding-places when a long drought is broken by a brisk rain, and
   the coincidence of the two phenomena has not failed to evolve
   the theory of a frog-shower.--FELIX OSWALD, _North
   American Review_.

    (2073)


   =Mistakes of Missionaries=--See MISSIONARIES’ MISTAKES.


                           MISUSE OF TALENT

   The life of Swift is a living tragedy. He had the power of
   gaining wealth, like the hero of the Jew of Malta; yet he used
   it scornfully, and in sad irony left what remained to him of a
   large property to found a hospital for lunatics. By hard work
   he won enormous literary power, and used it to satirize our
   common humanity. He wrested political power from the hands of
   the Tories, and used it to insult the very men who had helped
   him, and who held his fate in their hands. By his dominant
   personality he exercised a curious power over women, and used
   it brutally to make them feel their inferiority. Being loved
   supremely by two good women, he brought sorrow and death to
   both, and endless misery to himself. So his power brought
   always tragedy in its wake.--WILLIAM J. LONG, “English
   Literature.”

    (2074)


   =Mnemonics, An Exercise in=--See MEMORY.


   =Mobility=--See MOVEMENT UNCEASING.


   =Model, The Mouth as a=--See NATURE AS A MODEL.


                                MODELS

   At the University of Glasgow stands a statue of James Watt;
   and by his side is the original model of a steam-engine, the
   identical engine, indeed, on which Watt exercised his inventive
   genius and the pattern substantially of every steam-engine in
   the world.

There is just as truly a model for every man in the world. (Text.)

    (2075)


   =Models in Nature=--See INSECT, A MODEL.


   =Moderation in Diet=--See DIET AND ENDURANCE.


                              MODERN LIFE

   Except his own immortal poem and a few suggestions of the
   art and architecture of his time, there is nothing on this
   continent that Homer, resurrected and transported here, would
   recognize as belonging to the world in which he lived. The
   steamships, railways, telegraphs, telephones, electric motors,
   printing-machines, factories, and, indeed, all that we use, all
   that we enjoy, on land or sea, in peace or war, in our homes, in
   our places of business, on our farms, in our mines, or wherever
   we toil or rest--all, all is new, all belongs to the new world.
   The inventions of recent years have so changed the world that
   the man of thirty is older than Methuselah--older in that he
   has seen more, experienced more than the oldest of all the
   ancients.--_Inventive Age._

    (2076)


                               MODERNITY

Many a moral failure has resulted from not keeping up with God’s moral
progress, just as this mechanic failed through not keeping up with the
new inventions:

   The very great changes that have been wrought in machine-shop
   equipment during the past few years have hit many of the older
   mechanics pretty hard. A good deal of significance is contained
   in the remark of one such man: “I have had to learn over my
   trade three times and I’m too old to learn it again.” He had
   been given a difficult job to do on a modern engine-lathe
   containing the latest useful mechanisms for saving labor and
   procuring accurate work, and because he did not understand the
   tool he failed in his efforts until a younger machinist came to
   his assistance. (Text.)

    (2077)


                                MODESTY

Colonel Nicholas Smith, in “Grant, the Man of Mystery,” gives us the
following side-light upon Grant’s character:

   During a strenuous campaign, the opposition resorted to every
   means to discredit him and made the most virulent attacks upon
   his personal character. Grant remained silent and took no part
   in the campaign. He retired to his little home in Galena,
   received his friends, drove and walked about the streets, took
   tea and chatted in the most familiar way with his neighbors, and
   seemed totally unconscious of the fact that he was the central
   figure in one of the great political struggles of the century.

    (2078)

       *       *       *       *       *

Of Grant’s demeanor after the surrender of Lee at Appomattox, Colonel
Smith says:

   The little man, in the dress of a private soldier, who commanded
   the armies which brought about this glorious consummation,
   was not among those who joined in the demonstration of joy.
   When he reached his camp that night he was none other than the
   real Grant--modest, quiet, regardless of the greatness of the
   occasion. General Horace Porter, who was with him at the time,
   says Grant had little to say about the surrender.

    (2079)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A group of church-members, on a tour, were delayed at a railway
   station. One of them, after looking at a locomotive engine,
   asked his friends what part of the engine they would choose to
   be if it represented the Church. One replied, “I would be the
   brake, for that is often needed for safety.” Another said, “I
   would prefer to be the whistle, calling people’s attention to
   the fact that ‘the King’s business requireth haste.’” “And I
   would like to be the boiler, for that is an essential part of
   the engine.” “What would you like to be, brother?” said one to a
   quiet man who had not replied. “Oh,” said he, “I think I am only
   fit to be the coal, ready to be consumed so long as the engine
   moves.”

    (2080)

       *       *       *       *       *

A story is told among the friends of Gen. Samuel S. Sumner, U.S.A.,
retired, who was until recently the commanding officer of the Pacific
Division.

   General Sumner, after the San Francisco earthquake, went to San
   Rafael. There he was informed by one of the guiding spirits of
   the village that he must aid in patrolling and guarding against
   fire and unruly refugees. Something in General Sumner’s bearing
   evidently imprest the man, for after a moment’s thought he
   said: “I think I’ll make you a second lieutenant.” “Thank you,”
   answered General Sumner. “I don’t think any rank ever conferred
   upon me ever pleased me more unless it was when I was made a
   major-general in the regular army.” (Text.)

    (2081)

       *       *       *       *       *

The grace of modesty seems sometimes rare and its exhibition is always
pleasing. An instance of modest reticence is given in this concerning a
well-known author:

   They had met in Brooklyn at a little evening party--the young
   man and an older one--and were coming back to Manhattan
   together. The young man inquired the elder’s vocation in life,
   and the elder replied that he had practised law for eighteen
   years.

   “And, later,” he added, “I have done a little writing.”

   “Ever get anything published?” asked the young man.

   “Yes, a few things,” replied the elder.

   “Write under your own name?”

   “Yes.”

   “By the way, I don’t believe I quite caught your name.”

   “Thomas Nelson Page,” replied the other quietly.

    (2082)

   See HUMILITY OF A SCIENTIST.


   =Mohammedans and the Bible=--See BIBLE, GRIP OF THE.


   =Molding Children=--See RELIGIOUS TRAINING; TRAINING CHILDREN.


   =Molding Men=--See TENDERNESS OF GOD.


                               MOMENTUM

   The obstacles in a man’s way are determined by the gait he is
   going. An old negro driving a mule down the street three miles
   an hour has to get out of the way for everything, but when the
   chief of the fire department comes down the street a mile a
   minute everything roosts on the sidewalk and gives him the right
   of way.--_Famous Stories of Sam P. Jones._

    (2083)

       *       *       *       *       *

Many men fail to overcome sharp temptation because they have not by
long previous habits acquired the momentum of right thought and right
action. We can not fly unless we have learned to walk and to run.

   “Any one who has ever watched a heavy bird rise from the
   ground,” says the _American Inventor_, “has doubtless
   noticed that it runs along the ground for a few feet before it
   rises; the bird must acquire some momentum before its wings can
   lift its heavy body into the air. The natives in certain parts
   of the Andes understand this fact very well and by means of it
   catch the great Andean vultures, the condors. A small space
   is shut in with a high fence and left open at the top. Then
   a lamb or a piece of carrion is placed on the ground inside.
   Presently a vulture sees the bait and swoops down upon it; but
   when once he finds he has alighted on the ground inside he can
   not get out, for he has no running space in which to acquire the
   momentum that is necessary before his wings can lift him.”

    (2084)


   =Money and Precedence=--See MEDICAL MISSIONS.


   =Money, Discreditable Use of=--See VULGARITY IN THE RICH.


                            MONEY, EARNING

   Mr. Lincoln earned his first dollar by taking two men and
   their trunks to a Mississippi steamer which waited for them in
   midstream.

   “I was about eighteen years of age,” he said, “and belonged, as
   you know, to what they call down South the ‘scrubs.’ I was very
   glad to have the chance of earning something, and supposed each
   of the men would give me a couple of bits. I sculled them out to
   the steamer. They got on board, and I lifted the trunks and put
   them on the deck. The steamer was about to put on steam again,
   when I called out, ‘You have forgotten to pay me.’ Each of them
   took from his pocket a silver half-dollar and threw it on the
   bottom of my boat.

   “You may think it was a very little thing, and in these days it
   seems to me like a trifle, but it was a most important incident
   in my life. I could scarcely credit that I, the poor boy, had
   earned a dollar in less than a day; that by honest work I had
   earned a dollar. I was a more hopeful and thoughtful boy from
   that time.”--JAMES MORGAN, “Abraham Lincoln, The Boy
   and the Man.”

    (2085)


   =Money-getting, a Game=---See GAME OF GREED.


                           MONEY, GREED FOR

   The individual man thinks in the beginning, “If I could only
   make myself worth a hundred thousand dollars, I should be
   willing to retire from business.” Not a bit of it. A hundred
   thousand dollars is only an index of five hundred thousand; and
   when he has come to five hundred thousand he is like Moses--and
   very unlike him--standing on the top of the mountain and looking
   over the promised land, and he says to himself, “A million! a
   million!” and a million draws another million, until at last he
   has more than he can use, more than is useful to him, and he
   won’t give it away--not till after his death.--HENRY WARD
   BEECHER.

    (2086)


                         MONEY, IGNORANCE OF.

   A sick-nurse in a Vienna hospital administered by nuns was
   observed burning up a bunch of paper money which she had found
   in the bed of a deceased patient.

   She thought the bank-notes were rubbish, and it took the
   authority of the mother superior to convince her that the
   rubbish represented a small fortune.

   Subsequently it turned out that the sister, who had lived in
   the nunnery since her third year, never went outside, and had
   nothing to do with the administration or with worldly things
   whatsoever, had never heard of the existence or use of money in
   any shape or form.--Boston _Post_.

    (2088)


                        MONEY, HOW WE SPEND OUR

The diagram below is designed to show how much the people of the United
States spend every year for the drink traffic as contrasted with church
work, education and the leading standard articles of food, clothing and
shelter.

    Foreign Missions            $10,000,000
    =
    Brick                       100,000,000
    ==
    Churches                    175,000,000
    ===
    Potatoes                    210,000,000
    ====
    Silk Goods                  240,000,000
    ====
    Furniture                   245,000,000
    =====
    Sugar and Molasses          310,000,000
    =======
    Public Education            325,000,000
    ========
    Boots and Shoes             450,000,000
    ==========
    Flour                       455,000,000
    ===========
    Woolen and Worsted Goods    475,000,000
    ============
    Cotton Goods                675,000,000
    =================
    Lumber                      700,000,000
    ==================
    Printing and Publishing     750,000,000
    ====================
    Tobacco                     825,000,000
    ========================
    Iron and Steel            1,035,000,000
    ===========================
    Meat                      1,550,000,000
    ===================================
    Intoxicating Liquors      1,675,000,000
    =======================================

   The cost of liquors and tobacco is based upon the Internal
   Revenue reports for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1908. The
   other expenses are estimated for the year 1909 from the reports
   of the Secretary of Agriculture, the census of manufacturers
   for 1905, the report of the Commissioner of Education and other
   Government and census figures.--“American Prohibition Yearbook.”

    (2087)


                          MONEY NO TEMPTATION

   A certain Parson Scott was sent to Goldsmith to induce him to
   write in favor of the administration. “I found him,” says Scott,
   “in a miserable set of chambers in the temple. I told him of my
   authority; I told him that I was empowered to pay most liberally
   for his exertions, and, would you believe it, he was so absurd
   as to say, ‘I can earn as much as will supply my wants without
   writing for any party; the assistance you offer is therefore
   unnecessary to me.’ And so,” said the reverend plenipotentiary,
   with unstinted contempt, “I left him in his garret.” What
   Goldsmith’s exact earnings were at this time, it would be
   interesting to know: what sum it was that he found sufficient
   for his wants; but we know that this offer came at the close of
   twelve years’ desperate struggle for bread, during which his
   first work had brought him little profit, and “The Vicar of
   Wakefield” had been sold for £60 to pay his landlady.--W. J.
   DAWSON, “The Makers of English Prose.”

    (2089)


                         MONEY POWER IN CANADA

   I wrote to a friend of mine in Toronto for some figures. I shall
   leave out the hundred thousands.

   In 1881 the population of Canada was between 4,000,000 and
   5,000,000; in 1901 it was 5,372,000; in 1908 it was 6,940,000;
   and in 1909, between 7,000,000 and 7,500,000. Now, then, what
   are their bank deposits? In 1880, thirty years ago, they were
   $96,000,000; in 1884, $131,000,000; in 1890, 176,000,000;
   in 1900, $358,000,000; in 1908, $593,000,000; in 1909,
   $917,000,000; showing an increase of almost 63 per cent. in one
   year.

   What was the value of the farm products of the Dominion last
   year? $532,000,000, an increase of one hundred million in one
   year. They have the largest continuous wheat-field in the
   world. One field nine hundred miles by three hundred miles.
   I am talking about money, and this is Canadian money, with a
   population of between seven and seven and a half millions; and
   they have deposits of $917,000,000 in the bank.

   We all know the phenomenal growth that Canada has had and is
   destined to have. When I asked, “What are the resources of
   Canada?” my friend replied, “I don’t know, Marling, but they are
   beyond the dreams of avarice.” Then I got this telegram from him
   to back it up:

   “According to the census of 1901, the capital invested in
   Canada was $2,356,000,000 and the value of the products
   $992,200,000.”--ALFRED E. MARLING, “Student Volunteer
   Movement for Foreign Missions,” 1910.

    (2090)


                   MONEY POWER IN THE UNITED STATES

   Do you know how many people there were in the country in 1880,
   thirty years ago? There were fifty millions. Do you know what
   the wealth was then estimated to be? $43,000,000,000. Ten years
   afterward, in 1890, there were 62,000,000 persons living in this
   country; that is a growth of 24 per cent. in ten years. But the
   growth of the wealth in those ten years was from $43,000,000,000
   to $65,000,000,000, which is a growth of 51 per cent. in that
   decade. Population grows 21 per cent.; wealth grows 51 per cent.
   In 1900 there were 76,000,000 people; a growth of 22 per cent.
   in ten years. The growth in wealth was $88,000,000,000, or 35
   per cent. in those same ten years. In 1904, the year of our last
   census, the population was 82,000,000, showing an increase of 8
   per cent.; and the growth in wealth was $107,000,000,000. That
   is 21 per cent. in wealth in four years, while the population
   was growing only 8 per cent.

   The estimated average daily savings in the United States between
   1900 and 1904 over and above all consumption, was thirteen
   millions of dollars.

   In 1900, the savings-bank deposits in the United States were
   $2,300,000,000; and in 1908, eight years later, they were
   $3,400,000,000, an increase of 47 per cent.

   I have it on the authority of the secretary of the Chamber of
   Commerce of New York that the banking power of the United States
   is practically 40 per cent. of the banking power of the world.
   And this I read in a commercial review a few days ago: “The bank
   deposits of the United States amount to more than double the
   whole world’s known supply of gold. They are about equal to the
   whole volume of money in the world, counting gold, legal tender,
   currency, etc. They are greater in value than the world’s total
   amount of gold and silver since the discovery of America, and
   they would be sufficient to pay more than one-third of the
   entire debt of fifty leading nations of the world.”--ALFRED
   E. MARLING.--“Student Volunteer Movement,” 1910.

    (2091)


   =Money Safe With Men of Principle=--See PRINCIPLE.


                            MONEY, TAINTED

   Dr. Watkinson tells us that some years ago two scientists of
   Vienna made a series of bacteriological experiments on a number
   of bank-notes which had been in circulation for some time. The
   result of their researches was sufficiently startling. On each
   bank-note they discovered the presence of 19,000 microbes of
   disease--some of tuberculosis, some of diphtheria, and some of
   erysipelas. More than that, they found one bacillus peculiar to
   the bank-note--the bank-note microbe, so to speak, because it
   is found nowhere else. It thrives and fattens and multiplies on
   the peculiar paper of which a bank-note is made. Is there not a
   parable here?

If every evil use that is made of money were to leave its mark on the
coin or bill, how great would be the moral infection thus recorded.

    (2092)


   =Money Transmitting Disease=--See CONTAMINATION.


                               MONOTONY

   Before each of a row of machines in a certain Pittsburg shop, as
   described in _Charities_, sits a girl. Each girl picks up a
   bolt with her left hand, takes it from the left with her right
   hand, feeds it point downward into the machine. When she has
   done this 16,000 times, she will have earned ninety-six cents.
   Unless she or the machine breaks down, such is her ten-hour day.

   In these machine-made days, it is not the monotony of such a
   task which is most impressive. The girl of the 16,000 motions
   attracts and holds the attention.

   With motions fewer in number but infinitely greater in variety,
   the day’s work of a family is done. The house-worker is not tied
   to a machine. She stands up to her tasks one moment and sits
   down the next. She may think of other things, and to-morrow will
   be in its duties and performances a little different from to-day.

   The house-worker gets tired. Is it really the same grinding,
   breaking weariness as that of the girl who sits before the
   machine and makes 16,000 identical motions in a ten-hour day?

    (2093)


   =Monstrous Treatment=--See CRUEL GREED.


   =Monument=--See LOVE, FILIAL.


   =Monument of Christ=--See PEACE.


                         MONUMENTS, MEANING OF

   A great monument is erected not because the man to whom it is
   dedicated needs it, nor because it will alleviate the bodily
   ailments of other human beings. It is erected in honor of
   the great ideas which the man represented. It is built for
   the future as much as for the past; even more for the future.
   It is raised above the earth as a lofty sign which will teach
   coming generations a great lesson in a way that books never
   can. The American sculptor, Greenough, who designed the Bunker
   Hill monument, wrote: “The obelisk has a singular aptitude in
   its form and character to call attention to a spot memorable
   in history. It says but one word, but it speaks loud. It says,
   ‘Here!’ That is enough. It claims the notice of every one. No
   matter how careless, how skeptical or illiterate the passer-by
   may be, he can not escape the appeal of a monument.”--New York
   _Star_.

    (2094)


   =Moods and Apparel=--See DRESS AFFECTING MOODS.


                       MOODS DETERMINING DESIRES

An unidentified writer points out how different moods affect our minds:

    When I am tired and weary,
      And nothing goes my way.
    I thank the heavenly Father
      For two nights to every day.

    But when, once more, I’m rested,
      And all the world looks bright,
    I thank Him that He sends me
      Two days to every night!

    There’s the pause before the battle,
      There’s the respite from the fray;
    And that is how I reckon
      Two nights to every day.

    When the sunset glow has faded,
      In a little while ’tis light!
    And that is how I reckon
      Two days to every night.

    And so ’tis due, believe me,
      To the way we look at things,
    Whether we sigh and falter
      Or whether we soar on wings!

    (2095)


                          MOODS OF THE SPIRIT

   Pantheism, atheism, agnosticism, materialism, pessimism--how
   many ugly, dangerous words there are in the dictionary, and
   how many young men imagine that they have all these spiritual
   diseases when, as a matter of fact, they are only in the way
   of normal spiritual development. A man comes to say of certain
   things that are mysterious, of which he thought he knew, “I
   don’t know.” Then he labels himself or allows himself to be
   labeled an “Agnostic.” No religious life for him. Another man
   sees that the great God can not stand apart from His universe,
   but must be working in it and through it all. He labels himself
   “Pantheist,” or is so labeled. Another man suddenly discovers
   the abyss of actual wo in the world, the evil that, for the
   present at least, is without remedy. He is called a “Pessimist.”
   Another man looks to the right hand and to the left hand,
   and for the time he sees not God. The final word for him is
   “Atheist.” Now, we can not have a free expression of what people
   from time to time are actually believing until we get over our
   fear of all such names. We must have a faith that is wholesome
   enough and large enough to keep us from being afraid of our
   own thought. The fact is, that we are continually mistaking
   the passing moods of the spirit for the finalities of thought.
   These moods through which we pass have been familiar to the most
   profoundly religious minds.--SAMUEL M. CROTHERS.

    (2096)


                            MOORINGS, SAFE

   Before the era of steam, men used to tow their boats wearily up
   the lower Ohio, or the Mississippi, with a long line. At night
   it was not always safe for them to fasten their boats on the
   bank while they slept, because there was danger from the wash
   of the underflowing current that they would find themselves
   drifting and pulling a tree after them. Therefore, they sought
   out well-planted, solid, enduring trees, and tied to them, and
   the phrase became popular, “That man will do to tie to.”

    (2097)


   =Moral Contagion=--See RETORT, PERSONAL.


   =Moral Decay=--See CORRUPTION, INNER.


   =Moral Meaning of the World=--See FAITH IN A MORAL UNIVERSE.


   =Moral Pervasiveness=--See CHARACTER IMPARTED.


                          MORAL SATISFACTION

Mr. Robert E. Speer says:

   When I was in the city of Tokyo, I went to the house of a
   missionary to meet half a dozen of the leading native Christian
   men of Japan. They were thoughtful, well-read, thoroughly
   educated, keen students. There was scarcely a school of
   Christian thought with which they were not familiar. I asked
   them what it was in Christianity that had most appealed to them.
   I supposed, of course, they would answer that they were glad of
   their faith because it had thrown light on the dark, perplexing
   problems of life which Buddhism and Shintoism were unable to
   solve. Instead, every one said that what they valued most in
   Christianity was the moral rest that they had found there. The
   intellectual satisfaction was little compared with the sweet
   voice that was now sounding in their hearts, “Come unto me all
   ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.”

    (2098)


   =Morality, Sum Total of=--See LOVE AND LAW.


   =Morally Weak, Financially Strong=--See DRINK, PERIL OF.


   =Morning=--See DAWN OF CHRISTIAN LIGHT.


   =Mortal Pomp=--See GLORY FADED.


                          MORTALITY RESISTED

The Christian would naturally call the attention of persons like
those mentioned in the extract to Jesus’ words, “Whosoever liveth and
believeth in me shall never die”:

   A fantastic organization is described in _The British Medical
   Journal_. It is a league against illness and death, which has
   been formed, so we are assured, in the State of Iowa. Says the
   paper named above:

   “Already several hundreds of persons have joined. A condition
   of membership is that every one on admission must sign a pledge
   that he or she will continually assert that it is nothing but
   custom and habit of thought that causes people to be sick, grow
   old, or die. Any member who is reported sick from any disease
   and is confined to his bed for a continuous period of three
   days is to be fined for the first offense; for a second offense
   he is to be suspended from membership; a third offense entails
   expulsion from the society.” (Text.)

    (2099)


                         MOSAIC OF THE KINGDOM

Bishop Simpson gives this illustration of the composition of Christ’s
completed kingdom:

   In some of the great halls of Europe may be seen pictures not
   painted with the brush, but mosaics, which are made up of small
   pieces of stone, glass, or other material. The artist takes
   these little pieces, and, polishing and arranging them, he forms
   them into the grand and beautiful picture. Each individual
   part of the picture may be a little worthless piece of glass
   or marble or shell; but with each in its place, the whole
   constitutes the masterpiece of art. So I think it will be with
   humanity in the hands of the great artist. God is picking up
   the little worthless pieces of stone and brass, that might be
   trodden under foot unnoticed, and is making of them His great
   masterpiece.

    (2100)


   =Moslem Life=--See PERSIA, THE MOSLEM SITUATION IN.


                                MOTHER

So long as young men and maidens honor and love their parents there
is hope and success awaiting them. We do not know the author of these
lines:

    Of all the names to memory dear,
      One name to me alone is dearest;
    Tho many names to me are near
      Yet this shall ever be the nearest.
    For on my heart’s most sacred place
      ’Tis deeper graved than any other;
    Nor naught from thence shall e’er erase
      The lovely, honored name of mother.

    (2101)

       *       *       *       *       *

Hester I. Radford, in _The Atlantic Monthly_, writes the following:

    You struggled blindly for my soul
      And wept for me such bitter tears
    That through your faith my faith grew whole
      And fearless of the coming years.

    For in the path of doubt and dread
      You would not let me walk alone,
    But prayed the prayers I left unsaid
      And sought the God I did disown.

    You gave to me no word of blame
      But wrapt me in your love’s belief,
    Dear love, that burnt my sin like flame,
      And left me worthy of your grief.

    (2102)


                            MOTHER, A BRAVE

   From his mother Ben Jonson received certain strong
   characteristics, and by a single short reference in Jonson’s
   works we are led to see the kind of woman she was. It is while
   Jonson is telling Drummond (who wrote the records of his life)
   of the occasion when he was thrown into prison, because some
   passages in the comedy of “Eastward Ho!” gave offense to King
   James, and he was in danger of a horrible death, after having
   his ears and nose cut off. He tells us how, after his pardon,
   he was banqueting with his friends, when his “old mother” came
   in and showed a paper full of “lusty strong poison,” which she
   intended to mix with his drink just before the execution. And
   to show that she “was no churl,” she intended first to drink
   of the poison herself. The incident is all the more suggestive
   from the fact that Chapman and Marston, one his friend and the
   other his enemy, were first cast into prison as the authors of
   “Eastward Ho!” and rough Ben Jonson at once declared that he too
   had had a small hand in the writing and went to join them in
   prison.--WILLIAM J. LONG, _English Literature_.

    (2103)


   =Mother, A Heart Broken=--See JUVENILE COURT EXPERIENCE.


   =Mother, A Reminder of=--See REMINDERS.


   =Mother Caution=--See REASONING POWER IN ANIMALS.


                            MOTHER INSTINCT

   A cow’s melancholy over the loss of her calf led to a strange
   incident at the home of Josiah Brown, near Mount Carmel.

   Brown owned a cow with a spotted calf which was so peculiarly
   marked that some time ago, when it was killed for veal, the skin
   was made into a rug. The mother cow was downcast and bellowed
   continually.

   Mrs. Brown went into her front parlor, and there on the floor
   lay the cow, placidly licking the calfskin rug. It is supposed
   the cow approached the house and by chance saw the calfskin
   through the window, then quietly pushed the doors open and
   walked in. One barred door had been forced open by the cow’s
   horns.--Boston _Journal_.

    (2104)


                              MOTHER LOVE

   Not long ago a woman fifty years old went to a teacher in School
   No. 2, and with tears in her eyes, begged permission to sit down
   with the little ones five to six years old, that she might learn
   to read and write. She explained that she had two boys in the
   West, and desired to learn her letters that she might be able to
   communicate with them. Her daughter had done this for her, but
   three years ago the daughter died, and now the hungry-hearted
   mother was willing to make any sacrifice to keep in touch with
   her sons. So she entered school without telling any one, even
   her husband. Four weeks from the day she entered she was able to
   read through the primer, first reader, and almost through the
   second. Now she can write so any one can easily read every word.
   She learns ten new words at home every day, and always knows her
   lesson perfectly. She has learned to begin and end a letter,
   and it will not be long before she can write a love-letter--a
   genuine mother love-letter--to her boys. Through the goodness
   of my friend, I have in my possession a yellow sheet of paper
   containing one of her writing exercises. Reading between the
   lines, there is something inexpressibly touching about it.
   The words are such as may be found in the copy-book of any
   schoolboy, but the mother, with her hard hands and tender heart,
   as she copied the words imagined herself writing a letter to
   one of her sons. After writing her address and the date, this
   imaginary epistle, brimming with a real love, reads: “My dear
   son Hugh:

    Be the matter what it may,
      Always speak the truth.
    If at work or if at play,
      Always speak the truth.”

   Surely there is no ordinary clay in this vessel! She may not
   be able to understand the plan of her soul’s divine Potter,
   but a brave trust and a high hope reside at the center of her
   being.--F. F. SHANNON.

    (2105)

       *       *       *       *       *

   One calm, bright, sweet, sunshiny day an angel stole out of
   heaven and came down to this old world, and roamed field and
   forest, city and hamlet; and just as the sun went down he
   plumed his wings and said: “Now my visit is out, and I must go
   back to the world of light, but before I go I must gather some
   mementos of my visit here”; and he looked over into a beautiful
   flower-garden and said, “How lovely and fragrant these flowers
   are,” and he plucked the rarest roses, and made a bouquet, and
   said, “I see nothing more beautiful and fragrant than these;
   I will take them with me.” But he looked a little farther and
   there saw a little bright-eyed, rosy-cheeked babe, smiling
   into its mother’s face, and he said, “Oh, that baby’s smile is
   prettier than this bouquet; I will take that, too.” Then he
   looked just beyond the cradle, and there was a mother’s love
   pouring out like the gush of a river, toward the cradle and
   the baby, and he said, “Oh, that mother’s love is the prettiest
   thing I have seen on earth; I will carry that, too!” With the
   three treasures he winged his way to the pearly gates, and lit
   just on the outside, and said, “Before I go in I will examine my
   mementos,” and he looked at the flowers and they had withered;
   he looked at the baby’s smile and it had faded away; he looked
   at the mother’s love and there it was in all its pristine beauty
   and fragrance. He threw aside the withered flowers and the faded
   smile and winged his way through the gates and led all the hosts
   of heaven together and said, “Here is the only thing I found on
   earth that would keep its fragrance all the way to heaven--a
   mother’s love.”--“Popular Lectures of Sam P. Jones.”

    (2106)

   See ARTIFICE; PRODIGAL, THE; WAYWARD, SEEKING THE.


                         MOTHER LOVE IN BIRDS

   The loon, or great northern diver, is reported to have displayed
   her mother love and anxiety to a sportsman fishing in Sebago
   Lake in Maine: He surprized the mother with one young one
   near his canoe. She was employing every artifice to call the
   little one away, but the infant swam so near the boat that the
   fisherman took him aboard in his landing-net, and, holding him
   on his knee, gently stroked his downy coat, to the evident
   satisfaction of the youngster. Meanwhile the mother was in an
   agony of distress. At first, forgetting her native wildness and
   timidity in her mother love, she boldly approached the canoe,
   and, rising in the water till she appeared to stand upon it,
   furiously flapped her wings, uttering menacing cries. Finding
   this of no avail, she pretended that she was wounded, rolling
   over in the water and finally lying still as if dead, evidently
   to attract attention to herself and away from the young one. The
   fisherman, touched by these displays of motherly affection, put
   the young loon into the water, upon which the mother instantly
   came to life and again tried to entice her little one to go
   with her. (Text.)--OLIVE THORNE MILLER, “The Bird Our
   Brother.”

    (2107)


                           MOTHER, MEMORY OF

Lamar Fontaine, looking back after a long life of adventure, writes
thus of a parting with his mother:

   Those long-ago days now rise before me in all their vividness.
   As I pen these lines, nearing the seventy-seventh milestone in
   life’s rugged pathway, I feel the loving kiss yet burning on my
   lips where she prest it as she bade me “good-by.” There are some
   things in our life that time does not efface, and this is one
   of them. They are like the brand of red-hot iron that sears the
   tender hide of the bleating calf; once burned in, it lasts as
   long as life. I can see the last wave of her hand as she watched
   us move off across the prairie, and the picture is branded in my
   brain.--“My Life and My Lectures.”

    (2108)


                          MOTHER, PRAYER OF A

John Wesley might well be expected to become, as he did, the great
religious leader of his day with such a mother behind him.

   “His mother, with the finer prescience that love gives to a
   mother, saw in her second son the hint of some great, unguessed
   future, and she writes in her diary under the head of ‘Evening,
   May 17, 1717, Son John:

   “‘What shall I render to the Lord for all His mercies? I would
   offer myself and all that Thou hast given me; and I would
   resolve--oh, give me grace to do it!--that the residue of my
   life shall be all devoted to Thy service. And I do intend to
   be more particularly careful with the soul of this child,
   that Thou hast so mercifully provided for, than ever I have
   been; that I may instil into his mind the principles of true
   religion and virtue. Lord give me grace to do it sincerely and
   prudently.’”--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (2109)


   =Mothers as Protectors=--See FATHER ANIMALS UNPARENTAL.


                         MOTHER’S INFLUENCE, A

   Grant’s love for his family was one of the strongest and
   most attractive traits of his character. He never failed to
   appreciate the worth of his mother’s love, patience and wisdom
   during his early years at Georgetown. When she died in 1883,
   at Jersey City Heights, New Jersey, the General, when at the
   funeral, said to Dr. Howard Henderson, her pastor: “In the
   remarks which you make, speak of her only as a pure-minded,
   simple-hearted, earnest, Methodist Christian. Make no reference
   to me; she gained nothing by any position I have filled or
   honors that may have been paid me. I owe all this and all I
   am to her earnest, modest and sincere piety.”--NICHOLAS
   SMITH, “Grant, the Man of Mystery.”

    (2110)

       *       *       *       *       *

In a letter written by Grover Cleveland on the eve of his election to
the governorship of New York State, he stated to his brother:

   “I have just voted, and I sit here in the office alone. If
   mother were alive I should be writing to her, and I feel as if
   it were time for me to write to some one who will believe what
   I write.... I shall have no idea of reelection or of any high
   political preferment in my head, but be very thankful and happy
   if I serve one term as the people’s governor. Do you know that
   if mother were alive I should feel so much safer. I have always
   thought her prayers had much to do with my successes. I shall
   expect you to help me in that way.”

    (2111)

   See TRUTHFULNESS REWARDED.


                        MOTHERS NOT IN FICTION

   A sick youth was lying in bed, watching with quiet eyes his
   mother’s form moving gently about the room where for weeks she
   had been ministering to him with tenderest heart and hands.
   There had been stillness there for a little while, when the boy
   spoke: “I wonder why there are no mothers in fiction.” “Why,
   there are, dear; there must be,” the mother answered quickly,
   but when she tried to name one, she found that none came at the
   call. When she related me the little incident, I too immediately
   said that our memory must be strangely at fault that it did not
   furnish us with examples in plenty. Maternal love! Why, art was
   filled with illustrations of it, and so was literature. And
   yet, on making search, I too have failed to find the typical
   mother where it seems she would so easily be found.--_Atlantic
   Monthly._

    (2112)


   =Mother, The, and the Lambs=--See FATHER’S VOICE.


   =Mother Wisdom=--See WEALTH AND WORK.


                              MOTHERHOOD

   We can understand how Tennyson was preserved from the fatality
   of recklessness, how it is he wore the white flower of a
   blameless life, and ruled himself with chivalrous regard for
   womanhood, when we study his mother’s face. What such a woman
   must have been in the home, and what sort of home it must have
   been where she moved like a ministering spirit, we can readily
   imagine.--W. J. DAWSON, “The Makers of English Poetry.”

    (2113)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Alexander the Great never wore any garments save those made
   by his mother. These beautiful robes he showed to the Persian
   princes who came to visit his court as marks of the skill of
   Olympia, who was the daughter of a chieftain, the wife of a
   sovereign and the mother of a conqueror.

Every child does not have mother-made garments; but is it not true that
every child is mother-made? And does he not more than continue the
succession of her royal soul?

    (2114)


                          MOTHERHOOD, DIVINE

   I remember going one day into a great church in Paris and
   seeing, round back of the altar, in a little chapel sacred to
   the Virgin Mary and above a little altar in the little chapel,
   a bas relief. It represented the figure of a woman with a babe
   in her arms standing on the world; and under her feet, crusht
   and bleeding, was a serpent. It is only a woman with a babe in
   her arms that is going to crush the serpent after all.--HUGH
   BIRKHEAD.

    (2115)


                         MOTHERHOOD IN ANIMALS

Louis Albert Banks tells of a man who killed a she bear and brought her
young cubs home to train up as pets:

   When they got to camp the motherless pets were put in a box and
   given something to eat; but eat they would not and yelp they
   would, making a distressing noise. He took a switch and whipt
   them, but they only cried the louder. At first every one was
   sorry for them; but by and by, as the crying was continued,
   everybody began to scold on account of the noise. He thought
   that on account of the noise they made he would have to kill
   them. At length, however, he brought the mother-bearskin, and
   covering this over something, he put it in a corner of the box.
   The men stept back so that they could see without being seen,
   and pretty soon each little cub had smelled the motherskin and
   had nestled up close to it as contented as could be, and soon
   they were sound asleep. (Text.)

    (2116)


                           MOTION, CHANGE BY

   The effect of rotation in changing the shape of plastic bodies
   can readily be shown in simple experiments. A light metal ring
   is mounted on a vertical axis about which it can be rotated
   with great rapidity. When the ring is at rest it is circular
   in shape, but when it is rotated it becomes flattened along
   the axis, bulging out at what we may call the equator. The
   faster the ring is rotated the greater and greater becomes its
   departure from circular shape.--CHARLES LANE POOR, “The
   Solar System.”

    (2117)


   =Motion Desired=--See HOME, CHOICE OF A.


                        MOTION WITHOUT PROGRESS

   There’s one kind of an engine that’s always a nuisance to me,
   and that’s these little switching-engines down by the station.
   They run up and down side-tracks, shoving cars; and that’s all
   they do from week to week and from month to month. They’re
   always getting in the way of wagons and scaring horses. But when
   I see a grand locomotive start to the seacoast cities, there
   is music in her whistle. There is something which says she’s
   determined to land her passengers at their destination on time.
   There are a great many of us Christians just switching backward
   and forward on side-tracks.--“Famous Stories of Sam P. Jones.”

    (2118)


   =Motive, A Pure=--See PRIDE IN ONE’S TASK.


                           MOTIVE, MERCENARY

   Portrait-painting was the deliberate choice of Sir Godfrey
   Kneller because it was profitable. It was said of him: “Where he
   offered one picture to fame, he sacrificed twenty to lucre.” He
   said of himself: “Painters of history make the dead live, and
   do not begin to live themselves till they are dead; I paint the
   living and they enable me to live.” And in this he succeeded,
   for he painted ten sovereigns, and among other celebrities,
   Marlborough, Newton and Dryden. He was rewarded, too, by poems
   written in his honor by Pope, Addison, Steele and others. King
   William got him to paint the beauties of Hampton Court. (Text.)

    (2119)


   =Mountain, The=--See VIEWPOINT, THE.


   =Mourning=--See BIBLE CUSTOMS TO-DAY.


   =Movement=--See SLOWNESS.


                          MOVEMENT UNCEASING

   There is nothing absolutely stable in the universe. From the
   ultimate eon to the largest world in space everything is moving.
   If we believe in progress we shall say that everything is moving
   on. If anything should actually stop it would be instantly
   destroyed. If a man could go to the top of a high tower, or a
   mountain, and there could come to absolute rest, the atmosphere
   of our earth, light as it seems, but traveling about nineteen
   miles in a second, would by its friction probably reduce him in
   a second to a patch of flame and dissipate him as a fiery gas in
   every direction.

So, if in our life progress we should try to stop and live in a dead
past, or turn back to old conditions, the world’s rush of progress
would leave us behind, or its frictions would wear our spirits out.

    (2120)


   =Moving Pictures in Churches=--See CHURCHES AND THE CROWD.


   =Much in Little=--See MINIATURE WORK; ECONOMY.


   =Much in Little Space=--See USELESS LABOR.


   =Multiformity of Life=--See INDIVIDUALITY.


                        MULTIPLE CONSCIOUSNESS

   Newspaper readers have been furnished with the details of the
   case of the Rev. Ansel Bourne, which may be briefly recalled.
   Some years ago a stranger arrived in Norristown, Pa., rented a
   store, stocked it, and began business in a quiet, business-like
   way which attracted no attention and aroused no suspicion as
   to any mental difficulty. Some two months later one of his
   neighbors was startled by a call from the newcomer, who, in
   a bewildered way, demanded to know where he was, and after a
   time explained that he was a Rhode Island clergyman, could
   not account for his presence in Norristown, knew nothing of
   any of his actions while there, and could only recall that
   he had drawn some money from a bank in his native place two
   months before, after which his life was a blank. And yet,
   during the entire period his actions had been apparently
   rational, altho certainly in nowise suggestive of the clerical
   profession--rather the reverse. For two months he had been the
   sharp, shrewd business man during business hours, and a genial
   and by no means straight-laced companion after his store was
   closed. These instances of “multiplex personality” have been
   recognized by alienists since the time of the historic cases
   of Louis V and Felida X. In one state the patient is cheerful,
   frank, generous; in another, morose, taciturn, miserly; now
   belligerent and then the most peaceable of mortals; by turns
   mendacious and truthful, the soul of honor, and the most
   depraved of wretches, reveling in immorality, and leading the
   life of an ascetic. That the different states are due to changes
   in the psychical activity of different portions of the brain is
   now the accepted theory, borne out by experiment. This activity
   may be set up, modified, perverted, or totally arrested by
   disease; but it may also be caused by the influence of one will
   over another, as in the familiar illustrations of hypnotism.
   A few years ago Dr. Hammond hypnotized a young man before the
   New York Medico-Legal Society, causing him to commit imaginary
   thefts, assaults, etc., and the phenomena are now the common
   property of the medical lecture-room.--Chicago _News_.

    (2121)


                                 MUSIC

   When Gainsborough was asked how he had obtained the marvelous
   expression of inward peace on the face of the “Parish Clerk,”
   he said he painted it in time and tune with the sweet singing
   of a voice next door, the movements of the brush forming the
   beautiful face, and that it was the music that looked out from
   the eyes and smiled on the mouth.--“Stories of the English
   Artists.”

    (2122)

       *       *       *       *       *

   During the Civil War a Union regiment was camping in a Southern
   town, and the people stubbornly refused to fraternize with the
   men. Houses and shops were closed to them, and the citizens
   kept inside. The commanding officer ordered his band to strike
   up “Dixie.” Instantly, as if by magic, doors opened, shutters
   came down, and soon the street was alive with men, women and
   children--all merry and hospitable.

The music had unlocked their hearts.

    (2123)


                          MUSIC AND CHILDREN

   Music, especially singing, has a fascination and power over
   children that is truly wonderful. It soothes and subdues their
   passions and awakens every noble emotion. The school day is
   always brighter and better if it is begun with a stirring
   song. If the children are tired and nervous or ill-tempered, a
   song will quiet them as oil upon a troubled sea. “Music,” says
   Luther, “is the art of the prophets, the only art which can
   calm the agitation of the soul.” Its moral and religious power
   has long been recognized by the Church, but the school is just
   beginning to realize its value.--JOHN W. CARR, “Journal
   of the Religious Education Association,” 1903.

    (2124)


   =Music and History=--See HISTORY AND MUSIC CORRELATED.


                           MUSIC AND SPIDERS

   While a gentleman was watching some spiders it occurred to him
   to try what effect a tuning-fork would have on the insects. He
   suspected that they would regard the sound just as they were
   in the habit of regarding the sound made by a fly. And sure
   enough they did. He selected a large, ugly spider that had
   been feasting on flies for two months. The spider was at one
   edge of its web. Sounding the fork, he touched a thread at the
   other side of the web and watched the result. Mr. Spider had
   the buzzing sound conveyed to him over his telephone wires,
   but how was he to know on which particular wire the sound was
   traveling? He ran to the center of the web very quickly, and
   felt all around until he touched the thread against the other
   end of which the fork was sounding; and taking another thread
   along, just as a man would take an extra piece of rope, he ran
   out to the fork and sprang upon it. Then he retreated a little
   way and looked at the fork. He was puzzled. He had expected to
   find a buzzing fly. He got on the fork again and danced with
   delight. He had caught the sound of the fly and it was music to
   him. It is said that spiders are so fond of music that they will
   stop their spinning to listen, and a man once said that when
   he retired to his room for quiet before dinner and played the
   flute, large spiders would come onto the table and remain quite
   still, “running away as fast as their legs could carry them”
   directly he had finished--_Electrical Review._

    (2125)


                        MUSIC AS A THERAPEUTIC

Burton, in his “Anatomy of Melancholy,” says:

   Besides the excellent power music hath to expel many other
   diseases, it is a sovereign remedy against despair and
   melancholy, and will drive away the devil himself. In proof
   of the truth of the foregoing, many well-authenticated
   instances may be cited. Among them may be mentioned the case
   of King Philip of Spain, who, when suffering from hopeless
   melancholia, was restored to health by the singing of Farinelli
   in an adjoining chamber, after every other remedy had proved
   futile.--Boston _Musical Herald_.

    (2126)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Music has a vast future before it. We are only now beginning to
   find out some of its uses. It has been the toy of the rich; it
   has often been a source of mere degradation to both rich and
   poor; it has been treated as mere jingle and noise--supplying
   a rhythm for the dance, a kind of Terpsichorean tomtom--or
   serving to start a Bacchanalian chorus, the chief feature of
   which has certainly not been the music. And yet those who have
   their eyes and ears open may read in these primitive uses,
   while they run, the hints of music’s future destiny as a vast
   civilizer, recreator, health-giver, work-inspirer, and purifier
   of man’s life. The horse knows what he owes to his bells. The
   factory girls have been instinctively forced into singing,
   finding in it a solace and assistance in work. And for music,
   the health-giver, what an untrodden field is there! Have we
   never known an invalid to forget pain and weariness under the
   stimulus of music? Have you never seen a pale cheek flush up, a
   dull eye sparkle, an alertness and vigor take possession of the
   whole frame, and animation succeed to apathy? What does all this
   mean? It means a truth that we have not fully grasped, a truth
   pregnant with vast results to body and mind. It means that music
   attacks the nervous system directly, reaches and rouses where
   physic and change of air can neither reach nor rouse.--H. R.
   HAWEIS, “My Musical Memories.”

    (2127)


                     MUSIC AS A TRANSFORMING POWER

   No one denies the influence of music for good. A teacher told me
   of a boy, an incorrigible little fellow, who was almost entirely
   cured of his bad traits by a violet song.

    Down in a green and mossy bed
      A modest violet grew;
    Its stalk was bent; it hung its head,
      As if to hide from view.
    And tho it was a lovely flower,
      Its colors bright and fair,
    It might have graced a rosy bower,
      Instead of hiding there.

   He sang the violet song at home, on the street, on the
   playground, and in school. He loved and believed it; and
   its tender thought had helped him to become a noble young
   man.--ELIZABETH CASTERTON, “Journal of the National
   Educational Association,” 1905.

    (2128)


                        MUSIC AS AN ANESTHETIC

   A physician of Geneva, in Switzerland, has successfully employed
   music to soothe and tranquillize the dreams of persons who
   have taken ether or chloroform in order to undergo surgical
   operations.

   The music is begun as soon as the anesthetic begins to take
   effect, and is continued until the patient awakes. It is said
   that not only does this treatment prevent the hysterical effects
   sometimes witnessed, but that the patient, on recovering, feels
   no nausea or illness.

   Another physician uses blue light to produce anesthesia. The
   light from a sixteen-candle-power electric lamp, furnished with
   a blue bulb, is concentrated upon the patient’s eyes, but the
   head and the lamp are enveloped in a blue veil, to shut out
   extraneous light. Insensibility is produced in two or three
   minutes.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (2129)


                            MUSIC, CHARM OF

   A bewitching way to win a mate is to charm her by music. This
   is the fashion of our little house-wren, who arrives first
   in the nesting region, selects a site for the home, and then
   draws a mate out of the vast unknown by his charm of voice.
   No one could do it better, for he is a delightful, tireless
   singer.--OLIVE THORNE MILLER, “The Bird Our Brother.”

    (2130)


                            MUSIC ELEVATING

R. H. Haweis says:

   I have known the oratorio of the Messiah draw the lowest
   dregs of Whitechapel into a church to hear it, and during
   the performance sobs have broken forth from the silent and
   attentive throng. Will any one say that for these people
   to have their feelings for once put through such a noble
   and long-sustained exercise as that could be otherwise than
   beneficial? If such performances of both sacred and secular
   music were more frequent, we should have less drunkenness, less
   wife-beating, less spending of summer gains, less pauperism in
   the winter.

    (2131)


   =Music from Pain=--See SUFFERING TRANSFORMED.


                             MUSIC, GOD’S

    Since ever the world was fashioned,
      Water and air and sod,
    A music of divers meanings,
      Has flowed from the hand of God.
    In valley and gorge and upland,
      On stormy mountain height,
    He makes him a harp of the forest,
      He sweeps the chords with might.
    He puts forth his hand to the ocean,
      He speaks and the waters flow--
    Now in a chorus of thunder,
      Now in a cadence low.
    He touches the waving flower-bells,
      He plays on the woodland streams--
    A tender song--like a mother
      Sings to her child in dreams.
    But the music divinest and dearest,
      Since ever the world began,
    Is the manifold passionate music
      He draws from the heart of man.

    --_Temple Bar._

    (2132)


                         MUSIC, GOOD CHEER IN

   It is related of James Nasmyth that the rhythmic sound of a
   merry little steam-engine introduced into his machine-shop so
   quickened the strokes of every hammer, chisel and file in his
   workmen’s hands that it nearly doubled the output of work for
   the same wages.

   A master tailor employed a number of workmen, who, getting hold
   of a slow, doleful but catchy air, hummed it to the movement of
   their needles, much to the retarding of their work. Observing
   the secret, he treated the men to lively airs, having a merry
   swing and a rapid movement, and soon the deft and nimble fingers
   reverted to their accustomed quickness.

There is science as well as philosophy in singing over our tasks.

    (2133)


                           MUSIC IN THE SOUL

   The orchestra does not make music; it is only an instrument for
   conveying music from one spirit to other spirits. The orchestra
   no more makes the music which it conveys than the telegraph wire
   makes the message which it conveys. Music is not a volume of
   sound; it is an experience which sound transmits from one soul
   to another soul. The composer creates in himself the symphony.
   He translates this creation into symbolic language upon a sheet
   of paper. The orchestra translates this translation into chords.
   These chords received through the ear awaken in the hearer an
   experience similar to that which was in the soul of the original
   composer.--LYMAN ABBOTT, _The Outlook_.

    (2134)

   See SOUL MUSIC.


                     MUSIC OF DESPAIR AND OF HOPE

On the occasion of the funeral service of King Edward VII, William
Maxwell, in the _Record and Mail_, of Glasgow, writes as follows
concerning the pipes and song:

   No music can express the abandonment of grief like the pipes,
   for none is so individual. Its notes are the tradition of
   centuries of wild freedom, and are bound by no ordinary system.
   No music is so personal, for the pipes are the retainers of the
   clans.

   They, too, wear the tartan, and voice the feelings of their
   clan--its joy and grief, its triumph and despair; and none
   is more national, for it embodies the soul of a people, its
   strength and its passions.

   They are famous ballads to which the music of sorrow has been
   wedded. For there are two national ballads known as “The Flowers
   of the Forest,” and both are written by women. The first version
   was written by Jane Elliot, of Minto, and bewails at Flodden
   Field--

    I’ve heard the lilting at our ewe milking,
      Lasses a-lilting before the dawn of day;
    But now they are moaning on ilka green loaning,
      The flowers of the forest are a’ wede away.

   The second song was written on the same subject by Alicia
   Rutherford, of Fernilie, afterward known as Mrs. Patrick
   Cockburn, and is generally regarded as the more effective in
   singing, if not in composition.

    I’ve seen the forest, adorned the foremost,
    With flowers of the fairest, most pleasant and gay;
      Sae bonny was their blooming,
      Their scents the air perfuming,
    But now they are withered, and weeded away.

    Oh, fickle fortune, why this cruel sporting?
    Oh, why still perplex us, poor sons of a day?
      Nae mair your smiles can cheer me,
      Nae mair your frowns can fear me,
    For the flowers of the forest are a’ wede away.

   The words are beautiful, and instinct with sorrow when spoken
   or sung. But it is the music of the pipes that gives them
   supreme interpretation, and makes them the expression of grief
   so profound that “The Flowers of the Forest” has become the
   national dirge. Nor is sorrow their only note.

   The pipes can sound--and have sounded on many a stricken field
   and in many an hour of despair--the triumph of hope and of
   victory over death. They have stirred the blood and cleared
   the head, and given strength to the arm of many a soldier who
   has never dreamed of the eagle plume blended with the heather
   and never heard through the mists of memory the clash of the
   broadsword on the targe--

        I hear the pibroch sounding
        Deep o’er the mountain glen,
    While light springing footsteps are trampling the heath--
        ’Tis the march of the Cameron men.

    (2135)


                            MUSIC OF NATURE

   The Innuits, or Eskimos, of Smith Sound, Greenland, the most
   northerly people in the world, believe that the aurora borealis
   has a singing noise; and the inhabitants of the Orkneys, of
   Finmarken, and those in the region of Hudson Bay believe,
   with many competent observers, that a peculiar sound like the
   rustling of silk always accompanies it. The Lapps liken this
   sound to the cracking in the joints of moving reindeer. (Text.)

    (2136)


                       MUSIC, POPULAR, VALUE OF

   All history reveals the fact that music, wedded to stirring and
   patriotic words, has in every age had a powerful influence on
   the course of public events. Nor is this true alone of civilized
   peoples. Among almost all savage races, the warriors excite
   themselves to martial ardor by songs which thrill their souls.
   The war-dances alike of our North American Indians, of the
   African negroes, and of the semicivilized races which dwell in
   Asia, are accompanied by songs which, tho wild and incoherent
   to European ears, have an inspiring influence upon themselves.
   Carlyle wisely said, “The meaning of song goes deep”; and a more
   recent writer has declared that “it goes as deep as the heart of
   man, the throbbings of which it controls more readily and widely
   than do the speeches of statesmen, the sermons of preachers,
   or the writings of journalists.” It was clearly because the
   influence of legend and of patriotic appeal, joined with
   familiar tunes so strongly roused the emotions of the people,
   that the ancient bards of Ireland, Scotland, and Wales were
   held in such high honor in the old royal courts and princely
   castles of these lands, and were regarded with such veneration
   by the people everywhere. About two centuries ago Lord Wharton
   wrote a political ballad, which was set to music, the title of
   which was “Lillibulero.” It was very poor poetry, but somehow
   the rude verses struck a chord in the popular heart, and were
   sung everywhere. It was written in opposition to King James the
   Second; and so wide was its influence that Lord Wharton boasted,
   it is said, that it “sang James II out of three kingdoms.”
   The effect of the “Marseillaise” in arousing and exciting the
   revolutionary spirit of France is one of the prominent facts
   in the history of that country. To it, in no small degree, is
   attributed the success of the French arms against the allies
   who assailed the young republic. So potent, indeed, was the
   “Marseillaise” felt to be in kindling political passion, that
   both the Napoleons forbade it being sung or played in France
   during their reigns.--_Youth’s Companion._

    (2137)


                        MUSIC REFLECTS THE SOUL

   Welsh, Russian, Polish, Hungarian, Finnish, and Armenian music
   is apt to be pitched in plaintive, mournful, minor keys.
   A Welsh preacher explained to an English congregation why
   Welsh tunes were thus habitually pathetic. It is because for
   centuries liberties were lost under Saxon domination. So, in
   Russia, visitors were imprest by the tender and melancholy tho
   beautiful strains of the national melodies. People when opprest
   sing sadly; but liberty and joy emancipate even the music of a
   nation. (Text.)

    (2138)


                               MUTATION

One of the blest effects of the flight of time is that old animosities
are forgotten and the nobler things of reconciliation and peace are
seen. An instance of this lately occurred in the South:

   A group of gentlemen, soldiers of the present and the past, were
   gathered upon an historic Southern battle-field, Missionary
   Ridge. They stopt to read the inscription upon a tablet, simple
   and unpretentious, which marked the position of a Confederate
   battery. This tablet bore the name of “Luke E. Wright, Second
   Lieutenant.” Luke E. Wright, Secretary of War of the United
   States of America, surrounded by his officers and friends,
   paused a moment to read again this chapter from his youth.
   A distinguished general of the regular army laid his hand
   affectionately upon the shoulder of General Wright and remarked:
   “General, how queerly things turn out! Who could have foreseen
   that the boy in gray, who served his guns upon this spot, would
   one day be my chief, at the head of the Army of the United
   States?”

    (2139)

       *       *       *       *       *

The instability of all mundane things is suggested by the following
account, which may also remind us of the utterance of Jesus: “Heaven
and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away.”

   “When, in 1890, Germany bartered away Zanzibar in exchange
   for Heligoland, great was the rejoicing,” says _Shipping
   Illustrated_ (New York). “Much concern is now being
   manifested in Germany owing to the relentless attack of the sea,
   which has already reduced the island’s area nearly twenty-five
   per cent since it came under the German flag. At this rate
   the little island will, in another half-century, have melted
   entirely away. The North Sea has been from time immemorial
   an avaricious land-grabber. The Dogger Bank once reared its
   head above the surface, a fact proved by the bones of animals
   occasionally brought up in the fishermen’s nets. The eastern
   coast of England has suffered severely from its insatiable
   appetite. Dunwick, an important seaport during the Middle Ages,
   is now a part of the sea-bottom, and fishes and other marine
   denizens occupy the one-time habitation of men. Visitors to
   Felixstowe, once a Roman colony and now a modern seaside resort,
   opposite Harwich, have pointed out to them a rock a mile out
   to sea, on which the old church formerly stood. The Kaiser may
   yet live to see his cherished possession torn from his grasp.”
   (Text.)

    (2140)


                           MUTUAL SUFFERING

   There is no individual in society; it is one body corporate.
   If one member sin all suffer with him. The fearful forms of
   torture loom up yet out of the shadows, the paddle, the rack,
   the chair, the cangue collar, the strangle-ring, the shin-rod,
   and various forms of mutilation remind one of what we see in
   the Tower of London. Truly, we are brethren in cruelty if we go
   far enough into the dark past. But God, who is rich in mercy,
   when He transforms an Oriental, seems first of all to take out
   of his heart the poison of cruelty, and to leave the spirit of
   self-sacrifice and tenderness instead.--JAMES S. GALE,
   “Korea in Transition.”

    (2141)


                               MUTUALISM

   Did you enjoy your breakfast this morning? You were all alone,
   and got it yourself, did you say? Did you make the Irish linen
   in your napkin, or were your table furnishings the creations
   of an idle hour? Did you raise your own coffee? Did the melon
   grow in your garden, or was the beef fattened in your pasture?
   The very ends of the earth contributed to your simple meal, and
   for it you were dependent upon people you had never seen. Your
   breakfast-table was really a clearing-house for the ends of the
   earth, so that when you redecorate your dining-room, and are
   placing upon the walls the familiar legends, “Let good digestion
   wait on appetite,” and that famous quatrain of Robert Burns:

    Some hae meat but can not eat,
      And some would eat that want it;
    But we hae meat, and we can eat,
      So let the Lord be thank it,

   you might most appropriately add to these that thrilling
   confession of Paul’s, “I am debtor both to the Greeks and
   to the barbarians, both to the wise and to the unwise.”
   (Text.)--NEHEMIAH BOYNTON.

    (2142)

   As the astronomers tell us that it is probable that there are
   in the universe innumerable solar systems besides ours, to each
   of which myriads of utterly unknown and unseen stars belong,
   so it is certain that every man, however obscure, however far
   removed from the general recognition, is one of a group of men
   impressible for good, and impressible for evil, and that it is
   in the eternal nature of things that he can not really improve
   himself without in some degree improving other men.--CHARLES
   DICKENS.

    (2143)

   See BOY AND KING.


   =Mutuality=--See SOCIAL INTERDEPENDENCE; SOCIAL STRENGTH.


   =Mutuality, True=--See FAITHFULNESS.


                                MYSELF

    What unto me is Nature after all?
      I pass her by and softly go my way.
      She is the remnant of my little day
    Upon this beautiful revolving ball.

    I am the real being. At my beck,
      The seeming actual pays its vassalage;
      I am the reader and the world the page;
    I fling a halter round old matter’s neck.

    Glad to be taught of things outside, yet I
      Find me indifferent to their transient touch;
    A life’s to-day is an eternity
      Seems not to please my spirit overmuch.

    I may not fathom now the end or what
      The sweat and blood and tragedy may mean;
    But I can fight the fight and falter not.
      Above the clouds the hilltops are serene.

    So if I stay here years or slip away
      While yet the early dawn is dim and dark,
      It matters not. I am that living spark
    That ever glows ’tho planets have their day.(Text.)

    (2144)


                           MYSTERY IN NATURE

   What determines which queen shall leave the hive with the swarm?
   What determines which five thousand out of fifteen thousand
   worker bees, all apparently similarly stimulated and excited,
   shall swarm out, and which ten thousand shall stay in? These
   are questions too hard for us to answer. We may take refuge in
   Maeterlinck’s poetical conception of the “spirit of the hive.”
   Let us say that the “spirit of the hive” decides these things;
   as well as what workers shall forage and what ones clean house;
   what bees shall ventilate and what make wax and build comb.
   Which is simply to say that we don’t know what decides all these
   things. (Text.)--VERNON L. KELLOGG, “Insect Stories.”

    (2145)


                          MYSTERY IN RELIGION

   Here are wood, brass, my hand--any material things. Here are
   light, electricity, a magnet--things that we all have something
   to do with. Now let us ask the scientific people to look at
   them, weigh them, test them, analyze them, describe them--what
   will they report? Well, part of their report will be this:
   There is one thing without which all these other things are
   impossible, without which there could be no wood, no metal, no
   light, no electric current; and that thing is called ether.
   This ether is like nothing you have at hand. It is not solid,
   nor liquid, nor a gas. It does not weigh anything, nor does it
   move. It is not alive, nor is it capable of division. Yet it
   is everywhere. It is in the wood, in the brass, in the air. It
   fills what we call empty space. It is the road by which light
   travels. It is the medium of electricity. It is the home of
   magnetism. Well, when the scientist tells us this we can but
   gasp. It is nothing that we know, yet without it all we know
   would break down. It can not be seen, nor handled, nor heard,
   yet without it we could neither see, nor handle, nor hear. It is
   utterly beyond belief, so strange a bunch of contradictories it
   is; and yet if we assume it to be real, then and then only can
   all the things of life which we do know be properly explained.

   If in the natural world we follow out carefully all that
   is before us, if we explore our narrow strip of experience
   thoroughly, we come to a region getting more and more remote.
   Send a traveler from Hampstead--he comes back to tell us of
   India or the Arctic Ocean. Send a scientist out into this world
   of matter and force, of wood and stone and electricity, and he
   comes back to tell us of the incredible wonders of the unseen
   world, of the fathomless mysteries of the ether.

   If this is so with material things, how much more is it likely
   to be so with moral and spiritual things? If it be true of
   earthly things, how much more of heavenly things? If the
   findings of science are puzzling, contradictory, mysterious,
   will the findings of theology--the science of God--be simple and
   mere common sense? If when we have to do with wood and stones
   we stand amazed before the doctrine of ether, is it surprizing
   that when we have to do with Christ and His cross, God and
   His redemption, we come also to the wonderful teaching, not
   only of the divinity of Jesus, but of His preexistence from
   eternity with God? So, then, because the doctrine is marvelous,
   unheard of, difficult to grasp, do not, therefore, pass it by as
   incredible.--NEWTON H. MARSHALL.

    (2146)


                       MYSTERY NO BAR TO BELIEF

   Toads are said to have been found in rocks. Such cases are rare,
   but it would be as unreasonable to doubt them as to believe
   in some of the miraculous explanations that have been made of
   the matter. The phenomenon is marvelous, it is true, but it
   is supported by evidence that we are not able to contest; and
   skepticism, which is incompatible with science, will have to
   disappear if rigorous observation shall confirm it. The toad
   was observed, in one case, in the stone itself, and before
   recovering from its long lethargy, it had not made any motion.
   One of these toads was presented to an academy, with the stone
   which had served it as a coffin or habitation, and it was
   ascertained that the cavity seemed to correspond exactly with
   the dimensions and form of the animal. It is remarkable that
   these toad-stones are very hard and not at all porous, and
   show no signs of fissure. The mind, completely baffled in the
   presence of the fact, is equally embarrassed to explain how the
   toad could live in its singular prison, and how it became shut
   up there. M. Charles Richet had occasion to study this question
   some months ago, and came to the conclusion that the fact
   was real, observing that even if, in the actual condition of
   science, certain phenomena were still inexplicable, we were not
   warranted in denying their existence, for new discoveries might
   at any time furnish an explanation of them. (Text.)--_Popular
   Science Monthly._

    (2147)


   =Mystery of Regeneration=--See DISCERNMENT, LACK OF SPIRITUAL.


                       MYSTERY TO BE MADE CLEAR

   Dr. Abbott tells how, after sailing on the muddy waters of Lake
   Huron, he came on deck one morning, and, looking over the prow,
   started back in instinctive terror, for, looking down into the
   clear waters of Lake Superior, it seemed as if the keel were
   just going to strike on the sharp pointed rocks below; but he
   was looking through fifty or sixty feet of clear water at the
   great rock-bed of the lake. Now we endeavor in vain to fathom
   God’s judgments. As by a great deep they are hidden from us. But
   by and by the sea will grow as clear as crystal, and through
   the mystery we shall see and shall understand. We shall know
   not only the life that was in the ocean, but shall trace the
   footprints of Him that walked thereon.

    (2148)


                           MYSTERY, VALUE OF

   Recently a man called on Edwin Markham, author of “The Man
   with the Hoe,” we are told by _Success_, and introduced
   himself as the writer of a book on which, he said, he had spent
   twenty-five years of study and research. Mr. Markham, who is
   unusually kind in listening to and counseling with amateur
   authors, immediately felt that one who has spent a quarter of
   a century on his work is rare, and he invited him to his study
   without delay.

   “What is the nature of your work?” asked Mr. Markham.

   “I have written the greatest book of the ages,” began the new
   author; “I have solved the mystery of the world. I know all
   about it. I am prepared to prove my statements. I know just why
   the world was made, who really made it, and I have laid bare the
   mysteries of creation. I--”

   “My good man,” said Mr. Markham, interrupting him, “if you have
   come to me for advice, let me tell you to take your manuscript
   at once and burn it. If you have solved the mystery of this
   world, you are its greatest enemy. Why,” continued the poet, “if
   you have solved the mystery of the world you have robbed men
   of their greatest joy. You have left us nothing to work for,
   you have destroyed our ambition, you have reduced us to mere
   animals. It is the mysteries of the world that have made it
   great, and I, for one, don’t want to have them solved.”

   Mr Markham’s visitor sat dumfounded for a moment. The vision of
   his twenty-five years of labor flitted before him as he said:

   “I guess you’re right--I guess you’re right.” (Text.)

    (2149)




                                   N


   =Name, A Good=--See REPUTATION.


   =Nameless Pioneers=--See UNKNOWN WORKERS.


                                 NAMES

   Many of the names we bear, as well as names of many of the
   places we know and frequent, are derived from something done or
   some particular thing connected with the place. For example,
   there is a town about thirty-five miles from Paris by the name
   of Fontainebleu. It is said that when this town was originally
   founded, near the tenth century, that there was a beautiful
   fountain there, and from this it took the name of Fontainebleu,
   contracted from Fontaine Belle Eau (Fountain of beautiful water).

    (2150)


                            NAMES, ENDURING

   The Pharos of Alexandria was built by Sostratus, a Greek
   architect, in the reign of Ptolmey Philadelphus. Ptolemy ordered
   that a marble tablet be built into the wall with his name
   conspicuously inscribed upon it as the builder of the famous
   edifice. Instead, Sostratus cut in Greek characters his own name
   deep upon the face of the tablet, then covered the whole with
   an artificial composition, made of lime, to imitate the natural
   surface of the stone, and cut a new inscription in which he
   inserted the name of the king. In due time the lime moldered
   away, name and all, leaving his own name to come out to view and
   to remain as long as the lighthouse stood.

There are names that wear away, while others are made to endure. (Text.)

    (2151)


   =Names Handed Down=--See DYNASTIC NAMES.


   =Nations, Destiny of=--See DESTINY OF NATIONS.


                            NATIVE CONVERTS

   Bishop Taylor, of the Methodist Episcopal Church, used to tell
   the story of a wealthy Parsee in India whom he had persuaded to
   read the New Testament. Deeply imprest, the man declared that
   if he could find Christians who matched that Book he would join
   them. He sought among the white people for the life of the Book,
   but reported to Bishop Taylor that he had failed to find it to
   his satisfaction. The latter then sent him among the native
   converts, receiving his pledge that he would make as diligent
   search there as he had made among the Europeans. In a short time
   he returned with enthusiasm, to say that he had discovered men
   and women whose lives corresponded with the Book. He himself
   became a Christian and suffered the loss of wealth and friends
   for the sake of the Name, and when he died of violence in
   Bombay his last words were, “It is sweet to die for Jesus.”
   The story points to the tremendous truth that it is not in our
   conventialized Christendom that the New Testament experiences
   are being reproduced most closely, but in the communities of
   disciples who are freshly out of raw heathendom.--WILLIAM T.
   ELLIS, “Men and Missions.”

    (2152)


                            NATURALIZATION

Citizenship in heaven is not nearly so difficult as that of getting out
naturalization papers in America.

   The National Liberal Immigration League has petitioned the
   Department of Commerce and Labor to establish a calendar in
   the naturalization bureaus, so that applicants for second,
   or final, papers may be notified and attended to in regular
   order, instead of by the present first-come-first-served method
   with its resultant confusion and delays. Such a calendar would
   simplify matters wonderfully for the coming citizen. A man
   getting his final papers is obliged to bring with him two
   citizens as witnesses, who will swear that they have known him
   to be a resident of the United States for at least five years,
   the last year a resident of the State in which he receives his
   papers, and that he is a person of good moral character, and
   qualified in every way to become a citizen. Imagine the degree
   of good-nature essential in the instances of these witnesses,
   who must get up long before daylight, night after night, to
   accompany the potential citizen and see him turned back over
   and over again. Indeed, more than good-nature is involved, for
   the witnesses are in most cases working men, who are making
   an actual sacrifice, in that they are losing the time that
   is money to them, and the sleep that is essential to their
   welfare.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (2153)


   =Nature=--See HANDIWORK OF NATURE.


                         NATURE AIDING SCIENCE

   The cultivation of certain species of spiders solely for the
   fine threads which they weave has an important bearing upon the
   work of the astronomer.

   No substitute for the spider’s thread has yet been found for
   bisecting the screw of the micrometer used for determining the
   positions and motions of the stars; not only because of the
   remarkable fineness of the threads, but because of their durable
   qualities.

   The threads of certain spiders raised for astronomical purposes
   withstand changes in temperature, so that often in measuring
   sunspots they are uninjured when the heat is so great that the
   lenses of the micrometer eye-pieces are cracked. These spider
   lines are only one-fifth to one-seventh of a thousandth of
   an inch in diameter, compared with which the threads of the
   silk-worm are large and clumsy.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (2154)


   =Nature Altruistic=--See ALTRUISM IN NATURE.


   =Nature and Man=--See STRUGGLE.


   =Nature and Prayer=--See PRAYER AND THE BODY; PRAYER ANSWERED.


                      NATURE AS A CLUE TO SCIENCE

Man prides himself on his powers and attainments. Has he ever made a
rose or produced a mechanism like the hand, or done a thousand things
that Nature knows?

As an illustration of Nature’s superiority, the electric ray is cited.

   The electric ray, or torpedo, has been provided with a battery
   which, while it closely resembles, yet in the beauty and
   compactness of its structure it greatly exceeds the batteries
   by which man has now learned to make the laws of electricity
   subservient to his will. In this battery there are no less than
   940 hexagonal columns, like those of a bees’ comb, and each of
   these is subdivided by a series of horizontal plates, which
   appear to be analogous to the plates of the voltaic pile. The
   whole is supplied with an enormous amount of nervous matter,
   four great branches of which are as large as the animal’s
   spinal cord, and these spread out in a multitude of thread-like
   filaments round the prismatic columns, and finally pass into all
   the cells. A complete knowledge of all the mysteries which have
   been gradually unfolded from the days of Galvani to those of
   Faraday, and of many others which are still inscrutable to us,
   is exhibited in this structure.

    (2155)


                           NATURE AS A MODEL

   The voice of the singer travels forward more abundantly than
   backward, because he uses the roof, and, to some extent, the
   walls and floor of his mouth, as a sound reflector. The roof
   of his mouth being made of concave plates of bone with a thin
   velarium of integument stretched tightly over them, supplies
   a model sound-reflector. Every architect who has to build a
   concert- or lecture-room, or theater, should study the roof of
   his own mouth, and imitate it as nearly as he can in the roof of
   his building.

    (2156)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The analogies which furnish means of expression to the art of
   building find their models in nature. That which we feel at the
   sight of an edifice, the artist has felt a hundred times in
   contemplating the shifting curves of a hill, the bold edge of a
   haughty peak, the immensity of an even plain, a ground hollow,
   or gently undulating sheet of water which loses itself in the
   mists of the horizon. All the effects produced by architecture
   are only an interpretation of natural ones. What is a pyramid?
   A hollow cavern in a mountain. What is a Greek temple with its
   porticoes and columns? A memory of the sacred woods where were
   drest the first altars. What do we feel in entering a Gothic
   cathedral? The shudder felt at the divine awfulness of the
   forests. And it is also from the natural world that architecture
   has taken its decorations. Columns and capitals, rosettes,
   flowers intertwinings, ovals, foliage medallions, all remind
   us of something seen in the fields and in the woods, in plants
   and animals.--VICTOR CHERBULIEZ, _Revue des deux Mondes_.

    (2157)

   See INSECT A MODEL.




                          NATURE DUAL IN MAN

   Plato, in his “Phædrus,” pictures the two natures in man under
   the analogy of two horses, one black and raging, pulling him
   down; the other white and noble, with an upward look, and
   drawing him to pure and self-denying actions; both steeds
   harnessed to the same chariot while the man sits in the chariot
   driving. (Text.)

    (2158)


                         NATURE, ENJOYMENT OF

   One of the most interesting passages in modern literary history
   is that in which Audubon, the naturalist, met the sudden
   destruction, by the voracity of rats, of the treasures he had
   accumulated in fifteen years of incessant exploration. At the
   shock of what seemed the irremediable disaster, he was thrown
   into a fever, which had well-nigh proved fatal. “A burning
   heat,” as he described it, “rushed through my brain; and my
   days were oblivion.” But as consciousness returned, and the
   rally of nature fought back the sudden incursion of disease,
   there sang again through his wakening thoughts the wild notes
   he had heard in the bayous of Louisiana, the everglades of
   Florida, the savannahs of the Carolinas, and the forests that
   fringe the sides of the Alleghanies. He saw again the Washington
   eagle, as it soared and screamed from its far rocky eery. He
   startled again, from her perch on the firs, the brown warbler of
   Labrador. He traced in thought the magic hues on crest and wing
   that so often had shone before the dip of his rifle. And the
   passion for new expeditions and discoveries, arising afresh, was
   more to him than medicine. In three years more, passed far from
   home, he had filled once more the despoiled portfolios; and at
   every step, as he told his biographer, “it was not the desire
   of fame that prompted him; it was his exceeding enjoyment of
   nature!”--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (2159)


   =Nature Malleable=--See CONQUEST BY MAN.


   =Nature Merciless=--See GOD, NOT NATURE.


                        NATURE’S AGGRESSIVENESS

Winthrop Packard, in “Wild Pastures,” describes the way in which
nature’s wild growths obliterate the marks of human labor:

   Let but vigilance relax for a year, a spring month even, and
   bramble and bayberry, sweet-fern and wild-rose, daring scouts
   that they are, will have a foothold that they will yield only
   with death. Close upon these will follow the birches, the light
   infantry which rushes to the advance line as soon as the scouts
   have found the foothold. These entrench and hold the field
   desperately until pine and hickory, maple and oak, sturdy men
   of the main line of battle, arrive, and almost before you know
   it the farm is reclaimed. The wilderness has regained its lost
   ground, and the cosmos of the wild has wiped out that curious
   chaos which we call civilization.

    (2160)


                          NATURE’S ANTIDOTES

An army surgeon, discussing the nature of cholera and the sort of
precautions to take against the plague, says:

   Our greatest defense against this disease is, as usual, provided
   by Nature herself. These organisms can not live in an acid
   medium; they soon perish in the stomach, when exposed to the
   action of the gastric juice, because of its acidity.

Thus is nature kindly. Thus is the kindness to man of nature’s God.

    (2161)


                        NATURE’S CUNNING WORKS

   Excellent natural pottery is manufactured by nature in the case
   of a certain cactus. Woodpeckers are apt to excavate nests in
   the trunk and branches, and, in order that it may protect itself
   against these incursions, the plant exudes a sticky juice, which
   hardens, forming a woody lining to the hole made by the birds.
   Eventually the cactus dies and withers away, but the wooden bowl
   remains.

   As a weaver, nature is an exceedingly neat worker. Certain
   tree-barks and leaves furnish excellent cloth, such as, for
   instance, the famous tapa cloth used in the South Sea islands.

   Nature is also a glass-maker. By discharging lightning into beds
   of quartz sand she forms exquisite little pipes of glass.

   Nature does a bit in the rope-making line, too. These products
   of her handicraft may be seen in the shape of various tropical
   vines and creepers; and her skill as a lace-maker may be seen
   in the case of the lace-tree of the West Indies.--_Harper’s
   Weekly._

    (2162)


   =Nature’s Forgiveness=--See RESTORATION IN NATURE.


                          NATURE’S PROTECTION

   Fish are, we are told, very light sleepers, and frequently
   assume singular positions; but the most remarkable fact
   concerning them is the change of color many of them undergo
   while asleep.

   Usually their spots and stripes become darker and more
   distinct when they fall asleep. Occasionally the pattern of
   their coloration is entirely changed. The ordinary porgy, for
   instance, presents in the daytime beautiful iridescent hues
   playing over its silvery sides, but at night, on falling asleep,
   it takes on a dull bronze tint, and six conspicuous black bands
   make their appearance on its sides. If it is suddenly awakened
   by the turning up of lights in the aquarium it immediately
   resumes the silvery color that it shows by daylight. These
   changes have been ascribed to the principle of “protective
   coloration,” and it has been pointed out that the appearance
   of black bands and the deepening of the spots serve to conceal
   the fish from their enemies when lying amid eel-grass and
   seaweeds.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (2163)


                     NATURE’S RECUPERATIVE POWERS

   A unique opportunity to study Nature’s processes in restoring
   the vegetation of a land swept clean by a great disaster was
   afforded after the eruption of a volcano on the little island
   of Krakatoa in 1883. All living organisms were destroyed. In
   1886 a number of plants had already established themselves
   on the devastated island, those in the interior being
   remarkably different from those on the coast, ferns especially
   preponderating. In 1897 further progress had been made, and in
   1906 the forest trees had advanced so far as to make it evident
   that within a short time the island will again be densely
   forested. It is believed that the first plants to establish
   themselves on the blasted soil--such as ferns, algae, mosses,
   compositæ, and grasses--were borne thither by the winds, and
   that ocean currents were probably agents in the importation of
   seeds and fruit.--San Francisco _Bulletin_.

    (2164)


   =Nature’s Renewing Qualities=--See CONVERSION.


   =Nature-teaching to Children=--See RELIGIOUS EDUCATION.


   =Nature Witnessing to God=--See GOD REVEALED IN NATURE.


                          NATURE, WONDERS OF

   The oak-galls are formed only where a gall-insect has pricked
   a live leaf or stem or twig with her sharp, sting-like little
   egg-layer, and has left an egg in the plant tissue. Nor does
   the gall begin to form even yet. It begins only after the young
   gall-insect is hatched from the egg, or at least begins to
   develop inside the egg. Then the gall grows rapidly. The tree
   sends an extra supply of sap to this spot, and the plant-cells
   multiply, and the house begins to form around the little white
   grub. Now this house or gall not only encloses and protects the
   insect, but it provides it with food in the form of plant-sap
   and a special mass or layer of soft, nutritious plant-tissue
   lying right around the grub. So the gall-insect not only lives
   in the house, but eats it!--VERNON L. KELLOGG, “Insect
   Stories.”

    (2165)

   See REMAINS.


                            NATURE WORSHIP

   Father Brebeuf, writing about the Hurons in 1636, tells of a
   certain rock which they passed on their way to Quebec, and to
   which they always offered tobacco, placing it in the cleft of
   the rock and addressing the demon who lived there with prayer
   for protection and success. When the Indian in crossing a lake
   finds himself in serious danger, he prays to the spirit of the
   lake, throwing an offering, perhaps a dog, into the water. When
   the sound of the thundering frightens him, he prays to the
   thunder-being for protection. When he needs rain, he directs his
   rites to the god of rain and thunder. Air and earth and water
   are alive with spirits, any one of which may be prayed to; but,
   as a matter of fact, certain ones are singled out for worship.
   Add to these the many animal deities which are invoked even more
   frequently than those of the elements in the sacred formulas of
   the Cherokees.

    (2166)

   See PLANT WORSHIP.


                      NAVAL POWERS AND ARMAMENTS

   The following table shows the naval strength of the leading
   nations of the world:

    ==============+==========+=========+===========
                  | All war- | Battle- | Personnel
         POWERS   | vessels  | ships   | Officers
                  |          |         | and Men
    --------------+----------+---------+-----------
    Great Britain |    572   |    55   |  99,679
    United States |    199   |    25   |  47,750
    Germany       |    228   |    24   |  33,500
    Japan         |    224   |    14   |  36,480
    France        |    537   |    25   |  25,500
    Italy         |    198   |     9   |  27,789
    Russia        |    212   |    11   |  60,000
    --------------+----------+---------+-----------

    (2167)

  [Illustration: FORECAST FOR 1920 CONDITIONS IN 1909]


                          NAVIES OF THE WORLD

   The naval strength of the principal countries of the world is
   shown in the chart and table here given. The total number of
   ships credited to Russia includes a disproportionate number of
   small and obsolete vessels. The chart gives a forecast of naval
   strength reckoned from the known naval progress of the powers. A
   comparison of the naval strength of the United States with Japan
   in this forecast shows how baseless are the notes of alarm of a
   “yellow peril.”

    (2168)


   =Nearness and Distance=--See RETROSPECT.


                         NEARNESS DISTRACTING

   A visitor to Amsterdam, wishing to hear the wonderful music
   of the chimes of St. Nicholas, went up into the tower of the
   church to hear it. There he found a man with wooden gloves on
   his hands, pounding on a keyboard. All he could hear was the
   clanging of the keys when struck by the wooden gloves, and the
   harsh, deafening noise of the bells close over his head. He
   wondered why the people talked of the marvelous chimes of St.
   Nicholas. To his ear there was no music in them, nothing but
   terrible clatter and clanging. Yet all the while there floated
   out over and beyond the city the most entrancing music. Men
   in the fields paused in their work to listen, and were made
   glad. People in their homes and travelers on the highways were
   thrilled by the marvelous bell tones which fell from the tower.

There are many lives, which to those who dwell close beside them, seem
to make no music; they pour out their strength in hard toil; they are
shut up in narrow spheres; they dwell amid the noise and clatter of
common task work; they think themselves that they are not of any use,
that no blessing goes out from their life; they never dream that sweet
music is made anywhere in the world by their noisy hammering. But out
over the world, where the influence goes from their work and character,
human lives are blest, and weary ones hear, with gladness, sweet,
comforting music.

    (2169)


                        NECESSITY AND PROGRESS

   When God told Moses to speak to the children of Israel and bid
   them go forward there was another urgency to reenforce this
   injunction. The chariots of Egypt were behind them; they must go
   forward or die.

Has not the greater part of human progress been due to necessities
urging from behind and below--hunger, necessity for shelter, climates,
hardships, trials. By all these God has ever been driving men up out of
their Egypt of sloth and slavery toward a higher destiny.

    (2170)


   =Need of the World=--See LOVE, THE WORLD’S NEED.


                     NEED, REFUSED IN THE HOUR OF

   One of the most pathetic things in life is seen sometimes
   in country towns in the mountain regions of these United
   States--may be in some farming regions, too.

   The scene is laid in a country store of a Saturday night. The
   busy salesmen were waiting on many customers--customers who buy
   vast quantities of calico and chewing-tobacco and Scotch snuff
   and plowgear, and always on credit.

   Pretty much everybody from all about is in town. The elders have
   brought the youngsters, and these sturdy infants stare with wide
   eyes at everything.

   But in this busy gathering, far back in the corner, a man from
   the country is talking earnestly to one of the partners. The
   partner wears a heavy gold chain across his vest, and is in his
   shirt sleeves. He shakes his head, whittling, meanwhile, a bit
   of box.

   This man’s credit has run out. He is trying to persuade the
   merchant to carry him a little longer--just a little longer, but
   the merchant doesn’t see it that way. He wants money.

   He goes to his book and calls the man from the country and shows
   him the things written there. Then he leans back and lights a
   fat cigar triumphantly.

   The would-be customer makes one more effort and turns sadly
   away. He takes two children with him, one by each hand, and
   slowly goes out.

   “Ain’t we goin’ to buy nothin’?” asks one of them. A spasm of
   pain shoots across the father’s face.

   “Not jest now, boy,” he says; “after a bit--just you wait.
   There’ll be lots of boots’ boy size left--lots of ’em.”--Dallas
   _News_.

    (2171)


   =Need, The World’s=--See MANLINESS.


                       NEEDS, MEETING CHILDREN’S

   There is no more exceptional educational institution in America
   than the Berry School for mountain whites, near Rome, Ga., and
   yet the whole work grew out of a little Sunday-school that Miss
   Martha Berry established in the mountains near Possum Trot, Ga.,
   less than ten years ago. At that time Miss Berry was residing
   on an estate which was all that was left of the fortune of the
   Southern family to which she belonged. In taking her walks she
   was imprest by the desolate condition of the mountain children.
   Their parents were too poor to supply them with anything more
   than the barest necessities of life, and they were growing up
   in utter indifference to everything pertaining to education. To
   remedy this to a small degree, she invited a number of them to
   meet her every Sunday at a little cabin she owned, and there
   undertook to teach them a few of the things they most needed to
   know. At the time Miss Berry had no thought of establishing a
   permanent school. Instead of being a temporary affair, however,
   the school soon made itself an institution, practically without
   any effort on her part. So far as the children of the “poor
   whites” were concerned, they not only crowded her cabin to more
   than its full capacity every Sunday, but they finally came to
   her with the request that a day-school be added. For a time
   it looked as if the movement had come to a point beyond which
   it could not go, but finally Miss Berry screwed up sufficient
   courage to make a trip to the North that she might tell some of
   the rich philanthropists about her “poor white” boys and her
   mountain school. It was an interesting story that she had to
   tell, and she told it so well that she went back to her pupils
   with funds sufficient not only to maintain the school, but to
   enlarge it. To-day the school has one thousand acres of land,
   much of it under cultivation, and several fine buildings, in
   which fifteen teachers are kept busy instructing the one hundred
   and fifty pupils, not only in the studies of the ordinary
   school, but in the useful trades as well.--_Human Life._

    (2172)


                     NEGATIVE AND POSITIVE CULTURE

The lesson of the following poem, by T. Berry Smith, is that if we
cultivate the good diligently the evil will thereby be weeded out:

    Two fields lay side by side. Only a hedge
    Which ran athwart the plain dissevered them.
    In one my title lay, and he who owned
    The other was my brother. Each alike
    Had generous part of one ancestral lot,
    And each alike due diligence displayed
    On that he called his own. At early spring
    Each with a shining share upturned the soil
    And gave it to the sun, the wind, the shower.
    Thenceforth we rested not. Busily we wrought
    And wiped our briny brows ’neath burning suns,
    Biding the time of one far-off event.

    At summer’s end we each one came at last
    To find our recompense. Each had his own,
    The end for which he’d toiled. Through all those days
    My only thought had been no weeds should grow,
    But he had plowed ’mid rows of waving corn
    And in so doing killed the cumbering weeds
    That grew between. And now at summer’s close
    Behold! my field was verdureless and bare,
    While his was clad in vestiture of gold.
    How vain my toil! His recompense how full,
    Who reaped so much, yet plowed no more than I!

    (2173)


                          NEGATIVE DISCIPLINE

   A little boy went to school, and the teacher asked, “What is
   your name?” He replied, “Johnny Dont.” He had never heard his
   mother call him anything else and supposed that was his real
   name. There are too many parents who bring up their children on
   “don’ts.”

    (2174)


                           NEGATIVE TEACHING

   Professor Estabrook, the well-known educator, once told
   this story to teachers for the purpose of showing them the
   discouraging results that attend the negative form of command.
   A mother once sent her little boy to buy some eggs. “Take this
   basket,” she said, placing it in his small hand, “and don’t
   spill one or drop the basket. And don’t fall down.” As he was
   passing through the gate, she called after him, “Don’t be gone
   long and don’t break the eggs.” After the little fellow had his
   order filled and started home all he could think about was not
   breaking or spilling the eggs. A vivid picture of broken shells
   filled his mind. With a fearful looking into the basket as if
   afraid they would jump out of themselves, he did not notice the
   large stone in his path and naturally fell over it, spilling and
   breaking the contents of the basket.

Our human tasks are done most safely and effectively not while we are
concerned with the task, but while we keep in mind the exemplary Way
by whose guidance all tasks are made plain.

    (2175)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The writer, some years ago, heard an educational worker at a
   teachers’ institute tell the story of the mother who, on going
   away from home for a while, called her children for a few final
   precautionary prohibitions. Her conference with the children ran
   as follows:

   “Children, you are not to go up-stairs while I am away. But if
   you do go up-stairs, you are not to go into the back room. But
   if you do go into the back room, you are not to play with the
   beans piled there. But if you should play with the beans, do not
   put any into your noses.”

   There is no need to finish the narrative for any persons
   who know child-life. The physician eventually succeeded in
   preventing the nasal cavities from becoming vegetable gardens.

   The story seemed to have been made to order. But it is not at
   all improbable. The writer knows of kittens having been put
   “into the Baltimore heater,” and of little pigs having been
   run through a windmill after thoughtful parents had enjoined
   upon their children not to do these things. Thus does the law
   operate, as any fireside will abundantly verify.--A. B. BUNN
   VAN ORMER, “Studies in Religious Nurture.”

    (2176)


                                NEGLECT

   Men were once engaged in driving a railway tunnel under a large
   river. While they were pushing the shield of the tunnel on its
   submarine journey a defective steel plate broke. All escaped
   except one man, who stumbled and fell. Before he could regain
   his feet the water engulfed him. It was the defective plate that
   did it. Far away somewhere, the makers of that plate failed to
   do their duty, and through their failure this man’s life was
   lost.

    (2177)

   See DECAY; INDIFFERENCE TO THE GOOD.


                       NEGLECT, CONSEQUENCES OF

   The cause of an epidemic of typhoid fever among the 1,000
   inhabitants of Three Oaks, Mich., was discovered when a member
   of the Board of Health climbed to the top of the waterworks’
   stand-pipe and found the bodies of several thousand young
   sparrows covering the surface of the water. Immediately the
   mayor gave instructions to empty the stand-pipe, scrub and paint
   it.

   Hundreds of sparrow nests have been built on a ledge that runs
   around the summit of the stand-pipe and the young birds are
   supposed to have fallen in while trying to fly. The cover made
   for the stand-pipe when it was constructed was never put on. The
   result was twenty-one cases of typhoid in the town.

    (2178)


   =Neglect in Church Attendance=--See CHURCH SERVICES.


                            NEGLECT OF DUTY

John D. Rockefeller had for some months an expert greenhouse
superintendent named Potts, who knew a good deal about greenhouse
management. A recent visitor at the Rockefeller house missed Potts, and
inquired for him. Then, according to _The Saturday Evening Post_,
this conversation took place:

   “Oh, Potts,” said Mr. Rockefeller. “Yes, he knew more about
   greenhouse plants than any man I ever saw.” “But where is he?”
   “Well, he’s gone. It was wonderful, his knowledge of plants.”
   “You must have hated to part with him.” “Yes, I did. But it had
   to be. You see, he kept coming later and later every day and
   going home earlier and earlier.” “Well, a man of his ability
   might have been worth retaining even on short hours.” “Perhaps,
   perhaps. First he came and stayed eight hours, then six, then
   four; then he got down to two.” “But two hours of such a man’s
   time was worth having.” “Yes, yes,” answered Mr. Rockefeller
   slowly. “Of course. I hope I appreciated Potts. I didn’t object
   to two hours’ service. But he got so he didn’t come at all--just
   sent his card; then I dispensed with him.”

    (2179)


                           NEGLECT OF GENIUS

   W. J. Dawson tells us in “The Makers of English Poetry” that
   Burns was sick, poor and in debt. The last letter he ever wrote
   was a pathetic appeal to his cousin to lend him ten pounds,
   and save him from the terrors of a debtor’s dungeon. It would
   not have been much to expect from that brilliant society of
   wealth and culture in Edinburgh that some help might have been
   forthcoming to soothe the dying hours of the man it had once
   received with adulation. But no help came. There he lay,
   wasted by fever, his dark hair threaded with untimely gray;
   poor, penniless, overwhelmed with difficulties, but to the last
   writing songs, which won him no remuneration then, but which are
   now recognized as the choicest wealth of the nation which let
   him die uncomforted.

    (2180)

   See UNREWARDED INVENTION.


                        NEGLECT OF OPPORTUNITY

James Buckham is the author of the following:

                  The day is done.
    And I, alas! have wrought no good,
    Performed no worthy task of thought or deed.
    Albeit small my power, and great my need,
    I have not done the little that I could.
    With shame o’er forfeit hours I brood,--
                  The day is done.

                  I can not tell!
    What good I might have done this day
    Of thought or deed that still, when I am gone,
    Had long, long years gone singing on and on,
    Like some sweet fountain by the dusty way,
    Perhaps some word that God would say--
                  I can not tell!
    (Text.)

    (2181)


                         NEGLECT OF THE LIVING

On the 13th of July, 1816, occurred the funeral of Richard Brinsley
Sheridan. Many noblemen were present to pay a tribute to his
extraordinary talents.

   What a strange contrast! For some weeks before his death he was
   nearly destitute of the means of subsistence. Executions for
   debt were in the house; he passed his last days in the custody
   of sheriff’s officers who abstained from conveying him to prison
   merely because they were assured that to remove him would cause
   his immediate death! And now, when dead, a crowd of persons, the
   first in rank and station and opulence, were eager to attend
   him to his grave.... His death had been rapidly accelerated by
   grief, disappointment, and a deep sense of the neglect he had
   experienced.

    (2182)


   =Neglect Overcome=--See RANK, OBSEQUIOUSNESS TO.


                            NEGLECTED LIVES

   What is sadder than a ruined house and a deserted farm? Last
   summer, in Maine, I looked upon such a one. The gate was broken
   down, the entrance was a mass of thorns. Weeds had ruined the
   roses, for ten years the apple trees had gone unpruned, the curb
   at the well had fallen in, the windows were out, the ceilings
   were wet, vermin crept under the floor. Decay was everywhere.
   Wild growths had sprung up in meadow and pasture and ruined the
   fields. Desolation was everywhere. At the gate one might have
   written this legend: “A place where man has ceased to work with
   God.” Sadder scene there is not than a ruined rose-garden and a
   deserted house, given over to mice and rats, where once there
   was laughter and the shouts of children, and good talk between
   brave men. One thing alone is sadder--the deserted spiritual
   life. Lift up your eyes and look around on men. You find the
   multitudes who are neglected harvest-fields. Selfishness in them
   is rank. Self-aggrandizement is an unpruned growth. Pleasures
   run rampant. Like the green bay-tree, they flourish. And yet,
   their prosperity is a sham, their happiness an illusion, their
   influence a bubble.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2183)


                        NEGLECTING THE HARVEST

   It seems a very strange proceeding when a farmer plows and
   plants and cares for his crop through the summer and then lets
   it stand all winter in the fields, to be eaten by mice, pelted
   by storms, and go to waste; and yet he is quite as wise as the
   pastor who toils hard to persuade people to give their hearts to
   God and come into the Church, and then allows the converts to
   lapse into religious ruin through neglect.--_Western Christian
   Advocate._

    (2184)


                            NEGRO EXCELLING

   Estelle E. Gibbs, a negro girl, fourteen years old, living with
   her parents at No. 512 First Street, Hoboken, received to-day
   (Feb. 4, 1910), the first prize, a gold medal, at the graduating
   exercises of the Hoboken public school pupils, in the Gayety
   Theater. She had the highest average of any public-school
   scholar in the city--99⅓ per cent. in six subjects. The medal
   was presented by Mayor Gonzales.

   There are 10,000 white pupils in the schools and only 15
   negroes. Only eleven negro families live in Hoboken. Estelle
   is the daughter of a Pullman car porter on the Lackawanna
   Railroad. She is the only negro girl who has carried off such
   honors in Hoboken, and the only one to be graduated from the
   grammar school to the high school.

   In all but one of her studies the girl was rated at 100. In
   geography she made 96. The five branches in which she reached
   the maximum were history, civics, spellings, arithmetic and
   grammar.

   Eighteen questions were posted at the geography examinations,
   and the pupils had the privilege of selecting ten to answer. The
   teacher who conducted the examination says that Estelle picked
   out the ten hardest. The girl is rather small for her age, but
   can stand a lot of work.

   While she was standing the final examination Estelle was so
   absorbed that she did not go home to lunch, but spent all the
   time, from nine o’clock until three, working on the questions.

    (2185)


                       NEGRO “MAMMY” REMEMBERED

   The praises of the faithful black nurses of the South have long
   been sung, but it has remained for Texas to be the first State
   to formally recognize their worth. The citizens of Galveston
   have inaugurated a movement to erect and dedicate a monument
   to the old negro “mammy” of the South. It is planned to build
   a marble monument of appropriate design to cost $500,000,
   nearly half of which is already pledged. Resolutions concerning
   the plan pay this tribute: “Rapidly passing from the stage of
   events in the South are the few remaining representatives of
   one of the grandest characters which the history of the world
   records. Indeed, so high above all chronicles of pure, unselfish
   and unfaltering devotion, noble self-sacrificing and splendid
   heroism do they stand that they may be almost denominated a race
   in themselves.” This is all much to the credit of Galveston and
   Texas. But would it not be better to erect, not a monument of
   marble, but an equally enduring memorial in the form of some
   splendid philanthropic institution for the uplift of the black
   race? Or a great hospital to care for suffering blacks? The
   tribute would then be both beautiful and useful.--_Christian
   Work._

    (2186)


                            NEGRO PROGRESS

The Rev. Charles Edward Stowe, the son of Harriet Beecher Stowe,
returning from a trip through the South, where he had been studying the
industrial conditions, said:

   “Do you realize that the cotton crop is 1,000,000 bales a year
   bigger than it was in the old slave days, and that as far back
   as 1884 the negroes owned 1,000,000 acres of land in Georgia?
   I saw a big negro shuffle into an Atlanta bank and say: ‘Boss,
   ah wondah of ah has dat fahm of mine paid foh yet?’ The banker
   looked up the darky’s account and found that he had not only
   paid for his land by his remittances, but that he had $700 to
   his credit.”

    (2187)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Since the time the shackles were struck off the slaves,
   the negroes of the United States have had to their credit
   two Senators and seventeen Congressmen, besides scores of
   representatives in the diplomatic service and in official life,
   municipal, State and national. Negroes have won championships
   as pedestrians, bicycle-riders, and prize-fighters. As evidence
   of the intellectual endeavor and capacity of the race there are
   to-day (1908) 1,200,000 black children in the public schools,
   30,000 in the higher institutions of learning, and 200 in
   northern and European colleges and universities. Over 2,000
   have been graduated from colleges, and the professions show
   30,000 school-teachers and professors, 2,000 lawyers, 1,500
   doctors, dentists and pharmacists, and over 23,000 ministers
   of the gospel. In addition to all this, the negroes have taken
   out 500 patents, have published 400 books, composed numerous
   songs, and now own and edit 12 magazines and 300 newspapers. In
   a material way the negroes have also made noticeable progress.
   Besides many industrial establishments, they own and manage
   26 banks, own 2½ per cent. of the total valuation of the farm
   property, produce six per cent. of the total farm products
   of the United States, and own $900,000,000 worth of real and
   personal property.--WILLIAM A. SINCLAIR, “The Aftermath
   of Slavery.”

    (2188)

       *       *       *       *       *

Booker T. Washington, writing on “Negro Homes” in _The Century_, says:

   The first negro home that I remember was a log cabin about
   fourteen by sixteen feet square. It had a small, narrow
   door, which hung on rusty, worn-out hinges. The windows were
   mere openings in the wall, protected by a rickety shutter,
   which sometimes was closed in winter, but which usually hung
   dejectedly on uncertain hinges against the walls of the house.
   Such a thing as a glass window was unknown to this house. There
   was no floor, or, rather, there was a floor, but it was nothing
   more than the naked earth. There was only one room, which served
   as kitchen, parlor and bedroom for a family of five, which
   consisted of my mother, my elder brother, my sister, myself and
   the cat. In this cabin we all ate and slept, my mother being the
   cook on the place. My own bed was a heap of rags on the floor
   in the corner of the room next to the fireplace. It was not
   until after the emancipation that I enjoyed for the first time
   in my life the luxury of sleeping in a bed. It was at times, I
   suppose, somewhat crowded in those narrow quarters, tho I do not
   now remember having suffered on that account, especially as the
   cabin was always pretty thoroughly ventilated, particularly in
   winter, through the wide openings between the logs in the walls.

   Probably there is no single object that so accurately represents
   and typifies the mental and moral condition of the larger
   proportion of the members of my race fifty years ago as this
   same little slave cabin. For the same reason it may be said that
   the best evidence of the progress which the race has made since
   emancipation is the character and quality of the homes which
   they are building for themselves to-day.

    (2189)


                                 NERVE

   Altho almost completely paralyzed, Fred J. Daniels, an engineer
   on the Lehigh Valley Railroad, managed to save passenger train
   No. 2, which he was running, from colliding with the rear end of
   a freight train. The train was near Maxwell, Pa., when, leaning
   out of his cab window, Daniels saw the rear lights of a freight.

   At the same time a bolt dropping from the locomotive struck the
   driving-rod and was hurled at him. It hit his forehead and drove
   him backward. His neck struck with great force against the brake
   lever, and he fell to the floor helpless. Despite the blow,
   however, he reached for the lever as he fell and in some manner
   threw it into a notch which set the safety-brakes, and the train
   stopt a few yards from the rear end of the freight.

   When the fireman reached Daniels he was helpless, unable to
   move, and is now but little better.--Baltimore _American_.

    (2190)


   =Nerve Essential in Christian Work=--See MISSIONARY ADAPTATION.


                              NERVOUSNESS

   Of the physical limitations under which Herbert Spencer worked
   many interesting glimpses are given. When writing his last book,
   “Facts and Comments,” published a short time before his death
   and the result of two years’ work, he was able to produce only
   ten lines a day. Even when a young man he was afflicted with
   a nervousness from which he sought relief in playing quoits
   and rackets. Each of these games he would play in some court
   attached to a house or pavilion, and after playing about twenty
   minutes would retire to cover and resume his writing until the
   nervousness returned, when he would play again. (Text.)

    (2191)


                              NEW AND OLD

   A professor of mathematics from America was visiting a college
   in North China. To a native professor there he said, “There
   is a new method in mathematics being taught in America. It is
   called the ‘short cut,’ and is a method of casting out the
   nines.” Imagine his surprize when the Chinese scholar replied,
   “The Chinese have been practising that method farther back than
   recorded history goes.” And he called a pupil up to prove it.
   Sure enough, it was the “short cut,” the casting out of the
   nines.

New things are not so new, and old things are coming to light. (Text.)

    (2192)

   See SAFETY VALVES.


                        NEW, APPETENCY FOR THE

   Botanists tell us that when the tree ceases to make new wood it
   begins to die. Indeed, the only real live part of our northern
   trees is the part just under the bark. It may be even rotten
   and hollow on the inside, so long as the sap courses vigorously
   on the exterior the tree lives, grows and is young. So the mind
   begins to die when it loses its appetite for things new, when
   the heavenly hunger for variety ceases. (Text.)--VYRNWY
   MORGAN, “The Cambro-American Pulpit.”

    (2193)


                               NEW BIRTH

   Perhaps you have seen the earth dry and dusty, with her fields
   brown and her streams low. That night a storm-cloud walked
   across the face of the sky, and in torrents broke over all
   the land. The next morning when you went forth there were the
   same fields and streams, but it was not the same earth, for a
   new earth greeted you; and so it is when the life, light and
   energy of the Holy Spirit is let into a man’s life; he is still
   the same creature, formed in the likeness of his Maker, but
   he is not the same. He is a new man; he has been born again.
   (Text.)--ULYSSES G. WARREN.

    (2194)


                              NEW FAITHS

   When the simple conch is built its tenant adds a larger disk
   from the material provided in the sea; but after a time “the
   outgrown shell” is altogether left by “life’s unresting sea” and
   we find that empty shell cast on the shore. When the old temple
   has become obsolete humanity finds a spiritual home in new
   faith. (Text.)

    (2195)


                               NEW, THE

   To market old remedies that have gone out of fashion, or fallen
   into discredit, clever manufacturers give them another name and
   a new wrapper. Purchasers who go by the label, and they are in
   the majority, think that they have found a godsend, and take up
   the concoction eagerly.

   One is occasionally tempted to have recourse to such a trick, in
   the interest of certain old practises, excellent in themselves,
   but disqualified by abuse.--CHARLES WAGNER, “The Gospel
   of Life.”

    (2196)


   =New Year=--See COURAGE OF HOPE; FORWARD; IMPROVEMENT; STRENGTH.


   =New York’s Growth=--See CITY, GROWTH OF A GREAT.


   =Newness Discloses Ignorance=--See DROUGHT, RESPONSIBILITY FOR.


                         NEWNESS OF EACH SOUL

    Perhaps they laughed at Dante in his youth,
    Told him that truth
    Had unappealably been said
    In the great masterpieces of the dead.
    Perhaps he listened, and but bowed his head
    In acquiescent honor, while his heart
    Held natal tidings: that a new life is the part
    Of every man that’s born--
    A new life never lived before,
    And a new expectant art,
    It is the variations of the morn
    That are forever, more and more,
    The single dawning of the single truth:
    So answers Dante to the heart of youth.

    --WITTER BYNNER, _The Century_.

    (2197)


   =Newspaper Reporting=--See CLASSICS, STUDY OF; REPORTS TO ORDER.


                NEWSPAPERS AND MISSIONARY INTELLIGENCE

   You can teach the missionary boards and secretaries a little
   sense as to the news value of missionary items. I know these
   missionary boards and officials; they are altogether respectable
   and useful members of society, but they do regard a reporter of
   the secular press as a nuisance. Of course many of them do not;
   there are a few here. But they usually say, “No, we have no news
   to-day.” I have been in the office when a representative of a
   newspaper came in. “Anything new?” “No.” And I knew that there
   was the best sort of a newspaper story right there; but it went
   into the drawer and stayed there three weeks until the whole
   matter was sent down to the monthly paper of the Church and
   buried. Anything that is of human interest is news. A man said
   to me, “I am going to quit _The Globe_ because it is giving
   out all this slush of the Torrey-Alexander meetings.” We gave
   from two to five columns a day to those meetings, and that man
   objected. I said to him, “Put up any sort of a meeting in that
   hall, and if you will fill that hall, afternoon and evening,
   I will give you from three to five columns.” Those things
   that have human interest the people want and need.--J. A.
   MACDONALD, “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (2198)


   =Next Thing All Important=--See DEFEAT.


   =Night Activities=--See LIGHT.


                            NIGHT FOR REST

    Between the days, the weary days,
      He drops the darkness and the dew;
    Over tired eyes his hands he lays,
      And strength and hope and life renews.
    Thank God for rest between the days!

    Else who could bear the battle stress,
      Or who withstand the tempest’s shocks,
    Who tread the dreary wilderness
      Among the pitfalls and the rocks;
      Came not the night with folded flocks?

    The white light scorches and the plain
      Stretches before us, parched with the heat;
    But, by and by, the fierce beams wane;
      And lo! the nightfall, cool and sweet,
      With dews to bathe our aching feet!

    For he remembereth our frame!
      Even for this I render praise.
    O, tender Master, slow to blame
      The falterer on life’s stormy ways,
      Abide with us--between the days!

    --_The British Weekly._

    (2199)


                     NIGHT, GOD’S PRESENCE IN THE

James Church Alvord writes these prayerful verses:

    Not for to-morrow, Lord, I lift my eyes
    Up through the darkness which between us lies;
    Not ’gainst to-morrow’s terror, toil or woe;
    Not for to-morrow’s joy or glad surprize--
                Just for to-night.

    When the day breaks and far the shadows flee
    Strength for the conflict still shall come from Thee,
    I all Thy grace shall prove, Thy comfort know.
    O, let me feel this deep security--
                Just for to-night.

    Peace--’tis the gift Thou givest, peace and rest.
    Come, bid me droop my head upon Thy breast!
    Speak to me, Master, murmur soft and low,
    Flood all my soul with Thy communion blest--
                Just for to-night.

    Nay, I’ll not shun to-morrow’s wild alarms:
    Storms when Thou sendest, I’ll not ask for calms.
    Yet, I grow weary on the way I go:
    Put underneath the everlasting arms--
                Just for to-night.
    (Text.)

    (2200)


   =Nightfall=--See GOD, SLEEPLESS CARE OF.


                             NO MAN’S LAND

   There is a peculiar propriety in the name “No Man’s Land,”
   which has been applied to the group of rocky snow-clad islands
   four hundred miles to the north of the North Cape of Norway,
   once spoken of as East Greenland, and appearing on all modern
   maps as Spitzbergen. Wintering on these islands is practically
   impossible to civilized man. There are myriad petrels and gulls
   and wild geese in summer.

   For two centuries the whalers and sealers--Swedes, Danes, Dutch,
   Norwegians--frequented these islands in summer months. The right
   whale disappeared. The seals became fewer. Visits to the islands
   became less frequent. Now coal has been discovered in such beds
   as to justify civilization in taking cognizance of “No Man’s
   Land.”

   The United States accepted the invitation of Norway to take
   part in an international conference, at Christiana, to consider
   the government of Spitzbergen. Russia, Great Britain, Sweden,
   Germany and Denmark were invited. There is not much doubt that a
   form of government will be devised and a full agreement reached.

This is a significant movement toward extending law in some form to
every bit of territory on the earth’s surface. A century hence it will
perhaps be impossible to find a square foot of earth that can be called
“No Man’s Land.”--Brooklyn _Eagle_.

    (2201)


   =Nobility, Obscure=--See SPIRITUAL NOBILITY.


   =Noise, Vain=--See PRETENSE.


   =Nomenclature, Absurd=--See ABSURDITY IN NOMENCLATURE.


   =Non-Christian Religions=--See INADEQUACY OF NON-CHRISTIAN
      RELIGIONS.


                     NORMAL, THE, ARE THE HIGHEST

   In the valley the sequoia is twenty feet in diameter, and
   this is natural. Now, climb the sides of the mountain, and
   the diameter drops to ten feet, to five feet, to two feet
   six inches, and finally you get an army of average six-inch
   sequoias. But don’t say now that because the average on this
   rocky soil and these storm-swept peaks is six inches, that the
   great tree in the valley is abnormal. On the mountain side, with
   the thin soil, roots that cling to rocks, snows that bite, winds
   breaking the boughs, thunderbolts that burn and blacken, the
   average tree is small.

   But this stunted tree is abnormal and unnatural. Your Plato is
   the natural man in the intellect. Shakespeare is the normal man
   in imagination. Wendell Phillips is the ordinary speaker. The
   men you call supreme and extraordinary represent man as God made
   them.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2202)


   =North Pole Conquest=--See CONQUEST, COMMONPLACE.


   =Nose, the Human, Deteriorating=--See DETERIORATION BY DISUSE.


                             NOTE, A FALSE

   Some friends were one evening sitting together in a happy
   circle listening to a phonograph as it reproduced the voices
   of a quartet of famous singers. Some of the listeners had ears
   sensitive to musical sounds and they shuddered at one point
   when a false note occurred. As often as the record returned the
   discordant jarring of that false note came in with repellent
   effect. In the midst of the beautiful strain this spoiled the
   harmony at each recurrence. It is so with character. A false
   moral concept unless corrected goes on forever producing
   falsehood in the life. (Text.)

    (2203)

   See SELF-CONFIDENCE.


   =Nothing Lost in the Universe=--See CONSERVATION.


                               NOTORIETY

Only persons of cheap character would be likely to resort to such a
device as the following:

   With more than 10,000 persons intently watching proceedings,
   George Lenfers and Miss Ora D. Williams were married on the top
   of the gas company’s new giant smoke-stack, 222 feet from the
   ground, at high noon the other day. The streets and alleys for
   five blocks in every direction were jammed and high roofs were
   dotted with spectators as far as the eye could reach.

   Thomas Englehard, the builder of the huge pile of concrete and
   steel, clasped a belt about the bride’s waist and tied a rope
   to a ring in it. The other end of the rope he tied about his
   own waist and proceeded with the girl up the ladder. The groom
   followed with Rev. C. J. Armentraut, pastor of the Emanuel
   Presbyterian Church. (Text.)

    (2204)


                       NOURISHMENT FROM BENEATH

The soul that has its roots struck deep in the soil of God’s providence
will live and flourish in the most hostile moral climates of this world.

   Did you ever see a watercress-pond in the midst of winter? It
   is a very attractive sight. With the thermometer far below the
   freezing-point, and with deep snow covering the ground and
   the branches of the trees, the patch of watercress stands out
   in striking contrast--a spot of vivid green like a carpet on
   the surface of the pond. That the plants are able to grow and
   flourish under such apparently impossible conditions of weather
   is due entirely to the warm springs which feed the pond. The
   water welling forth from the warm heart of the earth saves them
   from freezing. (Text.)--LOUIS ALBERT BANKS.

    (2205)


                          NOVELS GOOD AND BAD

   To so affect a reader that his course of life becomes altered,
   must prove that the moving influence of fiction is strong
   indeed. With a weapon of such power placed in our hands, it
   rests with us to say how it shall be employed. If it has been
   used, carelessly so that low, selfish thoughts have been
   developed, it is our duty and joyous privilege to so write that
   lofty, noble sentiments shall rise and grow, tearing out all
   evil from the heart, as a growing tree splits a rock that once
   held it as a tiny seed in its moss-lined crevice. If the novel
   has inspired doubts as to the value, the grandeur, and joy of
   living, fostering that slow, insidious canker of pessimism which
   like the poisoned arrows of the Indian permeates the system
   with its virus, the novel must now be made to bring calm peace
   by presenting noble lives of heroism, self-forgetfulness and
   service by a high ideal consistently followed.--_Book Chat._

    (2206)

   See TIME, PRECIOUS.


                       NOVELTY, THE PASSION FOR

    There’s a race of men that don’t fit in,
      A race that can’t stay still;
    So they break the hearts of kith and kin,
      And they roam the world at will.

    They range the field and they rove the flood,
      And they climb the mountain’s crest;
    Theirs is the curse of the gipsy blood,
      And they don’t know how to rest.

    If they just went straight they might go far;
      They are strong and brave and true;
    But they’re always tired of the things that are,
      And they want the strange and new.

    --ROBERT W. SERVICE, “The Spell of the Yukon.”

    (2207)


                              NOW, DO IT

   When you’ve got a job to do, do it now! If it’s one you wish
   was through, do it now! If you’re sure the job’s your own, just
   tackle it alone; don’t hem and haw and groan--do it now! Don’t
   put off a bit of work, do it now! It doesn’t pay to shirk, do
   it now! If you want to fill a place, and be useful in the race,
   just get up and take a brace, do it now! Don’t linger by the
   way, do it now! You’ll lose if you delay, do it now! If the
   other fellows wait, or postpone until it’s late, you hit up a
   faster gait--do it now!--_Intelligencer._

    (2208)


   =Numbers, Courage of=--See COWARDICE.


   =Numbers Without Meaning=--See BIGNESS.


   =Nurse, Florence Nightingale as a=--See LIFE, A DEVOTED.


                         NUTRIMENT OF THE SOUL

   Last summer I went to an agricultural college. I had been
   under the delusion that black clods turned to strawberries,
   and that red clay ripened apples and wheat shocks. One day the
   professor handed me a large microscope to study two blades of
   corn, growing in a little pot of earth. Now there was something
   lacking in the soil. The little stock was yellow, sickly, and
   come to the moment of death. It throbbed a little, but the pulse
   beat low. What was the matter? All it needed was nitrogen.
   Nitrogen? Why there were billions of tons of nitrogen in the
   air, forty miles thick. When a man has pneumonia he dies, not
   because there are not billions of tons of oxygen above him,
   but because he can not absorb the oxygen. The soil could not
   help the dying corn plant. The rain could not help it--poor
   little plant that pants and pants, because it can not get that
   invisible nourishment in nitrogen. So we took a little liquor
   that held a few nodules from a nitrogenous alfalfa root, and
   poured it about the dying blade of corn. In a single hour the
   pulse began to beat true and firm; another morning came and
   the sickly yellow had changed to green. In a week the corn was
   growing like a weed. Out in the field were two acres of corn,
   sown broadcast. One acre was in the starved soil and yielded
   nine hundred pounds of fodder; the other acre yielded over ten
   thousand pounds, through that rich invisible food.

   Not otherwise is it with the soul.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2209)


                           NUTRITION, PROPER

   “With the exception of carbon, the food of plants comes from the
   soil and it is dissolved in the soil water. If the soil does
   not contain food enough, the plant can not grow well, even tho
   they have everything else they need. The ideal soil must have
   sufficient plant food in a form that can dissolve in water to
   supply the needs of crops grown on it.”

   There must be religious nutriment in the soil of education and
   training in order to proper moral growth. (Text.)

    (2210)




                                   O


                                 OASES

   Among the African deserts are some fertile spots. They are
   occasioned by springs which arise in little dells and moisten
   the ground for some distance around them. They are islands of
   verdure and beauty and refreshing in an ocean of desolation.
   Some of them are very extensive and contain a considerable
   population. One of these is called the Great Oasis, consisting
   of a chain of fertile tracts of about a hundred miles in length.
   Another is the Oasis of Siwah, which has a population of eight
   thousand souls.

Is not life dotted with just such oases that gladden the desert expanse
that surrounds so many pilgrims of earth? (Text.)

    (2211)


                                 OATHS

   The primary idea of taking an oath is that we call upon the
   Deity to bear witness to the sincerity or truth of what we
   assert, and so, as it were, register our oath in heaven.
   When Abraham, for example, raised his hands to heaven while
   swearing an oath to the King of Sodom, he pointed to the
   supposed residence of the Creator. Afterward, when men set up
   inferior deities of their own, they appealed to the material
   images of symbols that represented them, whenever an oath
   was administered. The most usual form of swearing among the
   ancients was, however, by touching the altar of the gods. Other
   rites, such as libations, the burning of incense and sacrifices
   accompanied the touching of the altar. Demosthenes swore by the
   souls of those who fell at Marathon. Anciently, too, mariners
   swore by their ships, fishermen by their nets, soldiers by their
   spears, and kings by their scepters. The ancient Persians swore
   by the sun, which was the common object of their adoration,
   while the Scythians pledged themselves by the air they breathed
   and by their simitars. Descending to more modern times, the
   Saxons pledged themselves to support their homes and privileges
   by their arms; and the punishment for perjury or non-fulfilment
   of an oath was the loss of the hand that had held the weapon at
   the compact. The Spartans were wont to assemble around a brazier
   of fire, and, pointing their short swords to the sky, call upon
   the gods to bear witness to the compact. Swearing by the sword,
   in fact, retained its significance down to comparatively modern
   times, tho in a slightly modified form. Thus, while the pagans
   extended the point of the weapon toward the supposed residence
   of the gods, the warriors of Christianity after kissing it,
   directed the hilt--the true emblem of their faith--to heaven.
   A later form of oath was the pressing of the thumb upon the
   blade. Gradually, however, the practise became obsolete; and
   the kissing of the hilt, accompanying the words, “By this good
   sword!” was handed down almost to the time when the wearing of a
   sword by gentlemen was abolished, as one of the strictest codes
   of civil honor.--London _Standard_.

    (2212)


                               OBEDIENCE

   When the Duke of Wellington received a very intrepid battalion
   returning from a bloody campaign it was observed that he said
   nothing of their courage, praising only their discipline
   and subordination to command. Civilians were surprized. The
   field marshal’s reason was ready--Englishmen are expected to
   be brave, but obedience is a higher honor. War itself, as a
   science of slaughter, is not a lofty kind of work, as the
   most courageous warriors in later days always admit. Yet the
   military profession is an elevated one in civilized countries,
   because it is a discipline of character in the principle of
   authority.--BISHOP HUNTINGTON, _The Forum_.

    (2213)

       *       *       *       *       *

Hon. Richmond P. Hobson, in relating some of his experiences after he
and his men were captured by the Spanish, tells the following story:

   The next day, when it seemed uncertain whether or not a remnant
   of the Inquisition was to be revived, when the enemy did not
   know whether it was his fault or ours that a ship had been sunk,
   and rather inclined to the belief that he had sunk an American
   battleship and that we were the only survivors out of several
   hundred, the men were taken before the Spanish authorities
   and serious and impertinent questions put to them. Remember,
   they did not know what it might cost them to refuse to answer,
   Spanish soldiers of the guard standing before them, making
   significant gestures with their hands edgewise across their
   throats. Our seamen laughed in their faces. Then a Spanish major
   questioned Charette, because he spoke French, and asked him this
   question: “What was your object in coming here?”

   And so long as I live I shall never forget the way Charette
   threw back his shoulders, proudly lifted his head and looked him
   in the eye as he said:

   “In the United States Navy, sir, it is not the custom for the
   seamen to know, or to desire to know, the object of an action of
   his superior officer.”

Obedience to the right, is an all too rare virtue, yet upon it depend
the foundations of society and the spread of God’s kingdom. We are
privileged to know and also to obey.

    (2214)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The Princess of Wales, according to _The Youth’s
   Companion_, has trained her children so carefully in habits
   of obedience and veracity that they are nearly models of what
   children should be in those particulars. Upon one occasion,
   however, they were sorely tempted. This was when their loving
   and beloved grandmother, Queen Alexandra, brought them a big box
   of bonbons. But when the sweets were offered to them, one child
   after another reluctantly but firmly declined to take any.

   “We like them, but mother has forbidden us to eat them,”
   explained the eldest prince.

   “You can have the sugar-plums if I say you may,” said the
   indulgent Queen. “I will tell mama all about it when she
   returns.”

   Prince Eddie wavered momentarily, then reiterated his refusal.

   “We’d like them,” he sighed, “but that’s what mother said.”

   The Queen was slightly annoyed by this opposition.

   “But if I say you may--” she said.

   Prince Eddie stood his ground, a hero between two fires--the
   wishes of his adored mother and those of his equally adored
   grandmother. His sisters and his brothers followed his lead.
   When the Queen went away she put the bonbons on the nursery
   table and there they stayed for months untouched, a handsome
   monument to the thoroughness of the princess’s training and the
   respectful love and devotion of her children. (Text.)

    (2215)


                         OBEDIENCE, A TYPE OF

   Admiral Dewey served through the Civil War, and had the fortune
   to get always into the thickest of the fight. When in command
   of the _Dolphin_, he exhibited his ideas of obedience. One
   of his “Jacks” refused to obey an order of his lieutenant and
   was reported to Dewey. “What!” said Dewey, “you refuse? Do you
   know this is mutiny?” The man still remained stubborn. Thereupon
   Dewey told the captain to call the guard. He stood the obdurate
   seaman on the far side of the deck, and ordered the marines to
   load. Then he took out his watch and said, “Now my man, you have
   just five seconds to obey that order,” and began to count the
   seconds. At the fourth count the man moved off with alacrity to
   obey the order. The admiral was a man to be trusted implicitly
   to carry out orders, which fact had become a byword at the
   Navy Department, and he won fame from the custom he had formed
   of doing the thing expected of him.--JAMES T. WHITE,
   “Character Lessons.”

    (2216)


                        OBEDIENCE AND GREATNESS

   The moon calls to the Atlantic and the mighty seas lift
   themselves in great tidal waves as they follow their mistress
   round the globe. It calls with equal insistence to the wayside
   pool and this passing reminder of yesterday’s shower yields not
   an inch. The dust speck dances in the sunlight impudently or
   ignorantly defiant of the law which holds the earth with a grip
   of steel as it goes bounding along through a wilderness of stars
   held steady by the same hand. Be it big enough and noble enough,
   it knows how to obey.--JOHN H. WILLEY.

    (2217)


                          OBEDIENCE IN SPIRIT

   It is told of an Eastern king how, planning to visit a remote
   part of his kingdom, he sent ahead a trusted minister to build
   for his royal master a suitable palace to live in. When the
   royal courier reached the end of his journey he found a plague
   raging and the people dying by thousands. So instead of building
   the contemplated palace, he took the money and spent it in
   medicine and bread for the poor sufferers, dug graves and buried
   the dead, and bought clothing to protect the living. When the
   king came on and found what was done, instead of punishing his
   minister he commended him, saying, “Oh, faithful servant, you
   have builded for me a palace in the hearts of my people--built
   it out of the tombstones which you have erected over the graves
   of the dead; jeweled it with the tears you have wiped away, made
   it echo with songs out of the sobs which you have stilled.”

These servants followed the spirit of the king’s command, not the
letter. Will not God be well pleased with a similar obedience from His
children? (Text.)

    (2218)


   =Object-preaching=--See SERMON, SAVING A.


                            OBJECT-TEACHING

Many men could be brought to abandon their evil habits if they could
have them as plainly pictured as the man did in the following incident:

   A rich profligate kept two monkeys for his amusement. Once he
   peeped into his dining hall where he and his friends had been
   enjoying themselves in wine, and found his pets mimicking the
   recent party. They mounted the table, helped themselves to the
   wine, and gestured and jabbered as they had seen their master
   and his guests doing. Soon they got merry and jumped all about
   the room. Then they got to fighting on the floor and tearing
   each other’s hair. The master stood in amazement. “What,” he
   said, “is this a picture of me? Do even the brutes rebuke me?”
   Ever afterward he was a sober man.

    (2219)


   =Object-teaching, Successful=--See WARMTH, LOST.


   =Objection Overcome=--See TACT.


                              OBLIGATION

   George William Curtis exhibited an unusual honesty. Not only had
   he a fine sense of obligation where there was no legal or moral
   responsibility, but he considered himself bound by obligations
   made by others, in which he had no part. Upon his father’s
   death, Curtis assumed his liabilities, amounting to $20,000,
   which took many years of personal deprivation for him to pay;
   and later, upon the failure of a firm in which he was merely
   a special partner for only a small amount, and having no part
   in the management, he refused the immunity allowed under the
   law, and gave up almost his entire fortune to pay the firm’s
   indebtedness.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (2220)


                       OBLIGATION TO THE CHURCH

   There are some people who seem to think they have a through
   ticket on a vestibule train for heaven. Having paid their
   pew-rent, taken a seat in the church for a pleasing Sunday
   service, feeling no obligation to do anything to move the
   church onward spiritually, they consider themselves at liberty
   to find fault with the minister and the choir, just as the
   critical complaining passenger, who, having paid for his ticket
   and secured his berth, looks upon the train officers and all,
   as bound to be simply subservient to his individual fancy and
   pleasure. Is it not time that those who are divinely commended
   to work out their own salvation with fear and trembling got rid
   of the passenger notion of getting to heaven? (Text.)--_The
   Living Church._

    (2221)


                         OBLIGATIONS, MEETING

   No chapter in Mark Twain’s life gave more basis for the great
   love of his countrymen than that of his unsuccessful business
   affairs, his simple, uncomplaining facing of them, and his
   honest fulfilling of his debts to the last farthing. Coming
   upon him when sixty years of age, and with disheartening
   completeness, the failure of his publishing firm might well
   have bowed down a stronger man; and there can be no doubt but
   that his cheerful humor saved him, in bearing up under the
   disappointment, as it enabled him to pay his obligations in a
   financial way.

   The firm of C. L. Webster & Co. was organized in 1884, and Mark
   Twain became president and chief stockholder. As head of the
   concern his essentially literary and unbusinesslike leanings led
   him to oversee only the broadest lines of the publishing policy,
   leaving the administrative details to other hands. Owing to the
   character of some of the works which the company put out, its
   ventures were more than ordinarily large; the memoirs of Gen.
   Grant netted between $250,000 and $300,000 in royalties alone to
   the general’s widow.

   On April 14, 1894, after several reverses, the firm made an
   assignment for the benefit of its creditors. Mark Twain had
   already put in more than $65,000 of his own money in an attempt
   to save the company; he had also lost heavily in trying to
   develop a type-setting machine. Liquidation showed liabilities
   of $96,000. Sixty years old, with a wife and three daughters to
   provide for, Mark Twain voluntarily gave up all his personal
   assets as a partial satisfaction of his debts and accepted the
   burden of those remaining. He said, splendidly:

   “The law recognizes no mortgage on a man’s brain, and a
   merchant who has given up his all may take advantage of the
   law of insolvency, and start free again for himself; but I am
   not a business man, and honor is a harder master than the law.
   It can not compromise for less than one hundred cents on the
   dollar.”--New York _Evening Post_.

    (2222)


                             OBSCURANTISM

Literal fogs may be very detrimental, but it would be more valuable to
clear away the fogs of ignorance and prejudice from human minds.

   Fogs are not only disagreeable, but very expensive, especially
   in fog-bound London, where they are often the cause of great
   loss to merchants. During the week preceding Christmas in a
   recent year it is estimated that as a result of foggy weather
   at least $50,000,000 was lost in that city, business being
   paralyzed for the time being. This being the case, the invention
   of some means for clearing the air of fog would mean to the
   British merchant a very material increase of prosperity. The
   problem is one of such serious importance that experiments
   are now being carried on with a view of finding practical
   means for dispelling the dense atmospheric conditions.--W.
   RAYMOND, _The American Inventor_.

    (2223)


                          OBSCURITY, LITERARY

   Thomas Scott, the Biblical Commentator, once wrote a commentary
   on “The Pilgrim’s Progress.” He gave a copy of it to an old
   woman. Some time after he called to see her. “Have you been
   reading the book I gave you?” he asked her. “Yes, sir.” “Do you
   understand it?” “Well, sir,” she said, “I can understand what
   Mr. Bunyan wrote, and I think that some day by the grace of God
   I may be able to understand your explanation of it.”

    (2224)


                       OBSERVATION, KEENNESS IN

Numerous mistakes in life, in literature and in science are due to
imperfect or erroneous observation. The following story from the
_Penn Monthly_, which is quite apropos, is related of Agassiz, and
it is sufficiently characteristic of this remarkably accurate observer
to have the merit of probability:

   Once upon a time the professor had occasion to select an
   assistant from one of his classes. There were a number of
   candidates for the post of honor, and finding himself in a
   quandary as to which one he should choose, the happy thought
   occurred to him of subjecting three of the more promising
   students in turn to the simple test of describing the view
   from his laboratory window, which overlooked the side yard of
   the college. One said that he saw merely a board fence and a
   brick pavement; another added a stream of soapy water; a third
   detected the color of the paint on the fence, noted a green mold
   or fungus on the bricks, and evidences of “bluing” in the water,
   besides other details. It is needless to tell to which candidate
   was awarded the coveted position.

    (2225)


   =Observation Profitable=--See INSECT, A MODEL.


                         OBSERVATION, VALUE OF

   Louis Agassiz, after he had spent fifteen years as a teacher of
   science in this country, when asked what was the best result
   of his efforts, replied: “I have educated five observers,”
   referring to the five senses. He claimed that the noblest
   profession in the world was that of teacher; and that especially
   in science, the teacher’s most important work was to train the
   student in habits of observation. Lowell called it a divine
   art--that of seeing what others only look at.

Educate the five senses and you make them fit teachers to educate you.

    (2226)


                               OBSTACLES

   Apparently some people are ignorant, and others have forgotten,
   that we have no sense that is capable of discriminating between
   high and low speed, or even between motion and rest, except
   by noting the usual accompaniments of motion, such as the
   apparent movement of surrounding objects, the resistance of the
   atmosphere, or the jolting due to obstacles in the path. If our
   surroundings move with us and the motion is smooth, our methods
   of detecting it fail. Thus, we can not feel the great velocity
   with which the earth is moving through space. In like manner, a
   train on a rough road seems to be going faster at forty miles
   an hour than one on a smooth road at sixty. The sensations of
   high-speed travel depend largely, therefore, on the conditions
   of that travel.

In the same way our moral progress can only be measured by the
obstacles we meet and overcome.

    (2227)

   See HAPPINESS; REBUFFS A STIMULANT.


   =Obstacles Overcome=--See ENERGY, INDOMITABLE.


                         OBSTACLES, UNEXPECTED

   Dr. Cecil Carus-Wilson described before the Linnean Society
   in London recently some singular observations concerning the
   inclusion of stones in the roots and stems of trees.

   Oaks growing in a gravel pit in Kent had so many stones imbedded
   in their roots that they resisted attempts to saw them. Some of
   the roots are described as consisting of “a conglomerate formed
   of flints inclosed in a woody matrix.” In one specimen 67 flints
   were found, the largest weighing several pounds. In Norton
   churchyard, near Faversham, are three old yew-trees, in two of
   which flints and fragments of tiles have been seen at a height
   of seven feet above the ground. In Molash churchyard are other
   yew-trees which have flints imbedded in their trunks as much as
   eight feet above the ground. The tissues of the wood appear to
   have grown round the stones, which have been carried upward with
   the growth of the trees.

    (2228)


   =Obstinacy=--See SUGGESTION.


   =Obstruction=--See LITTLE THINGS.


   =Occasion, Equal to the=--See RANK, OBSEQUIOUSNESS TO.


                         OCCUPATION AND HEALTH

There are some occupations that ought to be salvatory to those that
engage in them, as that of the physician or the minister. Yet all
occupations may so serve, if the man who works in them thus determines.
As an instance of service salvatory to the worker, an English writer
refers to the immunity from disease of those who work in the oil-fields:

   There is no difficulty in accounting for this. Carbolic acid,
   one of the most powerful of our disinfectants, is abundantly
   produced in the oilworks, and this is carried by the clothes of
   the men, and with the fumes of the oil into the dwellings of the
   workmen and through all the atmosphere of the neighborhood, and
   has thereby counteracted some of the most deadly agencies of
   organic poisons. Besides this, the paraffin oil itself is a good
   disinfectant.

    (2229)


                        OCCUPATION OF THE MIND

   A certain boy who was distinctly bad in the Sunday-school class
   was observed to be one of the best in the industrial class held
   on Saturday. “How is it,” said the teacher, “that you cut up
   so in Sunday-school and behave so well here?” “Well,” said the
   boy, “here I have something to occupy my mind; in Sunday-school
   I don’t.”--WALTER L. HARVEY, “Journal of the Religious
   Education Association,” 1903.

    (2230)


   =Occupation, Slavery to=--See ENGROSSMENT IN BUSINESS.


   =Occupation, Wrong=--See SYMPATHY ROYAL.


   =Occupations, Comparing=--See VALUES, STANDARD OF.


   =Occupations of Women=--See ALUMNÆ OCCUPATIONS.


                             ODD BEHAVIOR

   Paul Veronese, like many other painters, was given to
   eccentric moods and odd habits. On one occasion he accepted
   the hospitality of a family at their beautiful country villa.
   He assumed great liberties during his visit, claiming absolute
   possession of his room, allowing not even a servant to enter.
   He would not suffer the maid to make his bed, and the sweepings
   of the room were left every morning outside of the door for her
   to remove. He slipt away without bidding the family good-by.
   On entering the room the servant found the sheets of the bed
   missing and at once reported that the painter must have stolen
   them. After careful search a roll was found in a corner, which
   proved to be a magnificent picture of “Alexander in the tent of
   Darius.” It was painted on the missing sheets of the bed, and
   the artist had chosen this curious way of recompensing his hosts
   for their generous hospitality.--FRANK H. STAUFFER,
   _The Epoch_.

    (2231)


                             ODD ONE, THE

   “As every one who has visited London knows,” said a young man
   formerly attached to our embassy at the British capital, “the
   number of passengers carried on certain ’busses is limited by
   regulation.

   “Once a kindly Irish conductor, tho quite aware that his ’bus
   was full, had permitted a young and sickly woman to squeeze in.
   The ’bus had not proceeded far before the usual crank spoke up.
   ‘Conductah!’ he exclaimed, ‘You’ve one over your number, y’know.’

   “‘Have I, sir?’ asked the conductor with affected concern.
   Then, beginning to count from the opposite end, leaving the
   complainant until the last, he repeated: ‘Wan, two, three, four,
   foive, six, sivin, eight, noine, tin, ’lefen, twelve, thir--so I
   have sir, an’, be the Lord Harry, ye’re the wan. Out ye go!’

   “And out he did go.”--Boston _Transcript_.

    (2232)


                                 ODORS

As each nation has its peculiar cut of dress, so each has its national
odors apart from race odor. Esson Third says:

   The Korean gentleman carries about with him two odors that are
   specially noticeable to a newcomer. I once made a journey with a
   Western friend who had a somewhat highly keyed sense of smell,
   and I remember his stopping short on the road as we walked
   along, tapping me on the arm and with a long sniff saying:
   “There it is again.” “What is it?” I asked. “That peculiar
   smell,” said he. I sniffed long and hard, but there was nothing
   but the fresh morning breeze and the delightful odors of hill
   and field. “I’ve smelt it before,” said he, “and I’ll tell you
   later when I smell it again.”

   We tracked that odor for two days, and then we discovered that
   it came from the black lacquer hat. The odor of lacquer is one
   of Korea’s national smells. The second smell is due to a mixture
   of garlic, onions, cabbage, salt, fish, and other ingredients,
   that make up the Korean pickle so greatly enjoyed with their
   rice. This odor clings like that of Limburger cheese, and
   follows the native to church and into all the other walks of
   life.--JAMES S. GALE, “Korea in Transition.”

    (2233)


                           OFFENDED FEELINGS

   To think about something else is the best and only sure cure for
   offended feelings. To think about the offense--its unkindness,
   its injustice, its meanness of spirit, and all its other ugly
   aspects--only adds to its sting and deepens our own suffering
   or anger. This hurts us, and helps no one. Eggs are not the
   only things that are given added life and power by being
   brooded over. If we want to enlarge and multiply everything
   unpleasant in that which has offended us, brooding over it will
   do it. If we want to have done with it and get it out of our
   life as quickly as possible, to turn deliberately away from
   it and concentrate our thought and energy upon something else
   is our sure road to success. “When any one has offended me, I
   try to raise my soul so high that the offense can not reach
   it,” Descartes is credited with saying. But we can not lift
   ourselves by mere will power. We can lose ourselves by devotion
   to something else--and thus we can lose the offense.--_Sunday
   School Times._

    (2234)


                           OFFENSE, ROCK OF

Fred J. Atwood voices the regret of those who, by failing to live, will
lead others astray:

    Because, professing still to be
      A follower of the Lamb of God,
    I walk in devious paths where he
      Is never seen, has never trod,
    E’en thus it is that some, through me,
    The Master’s face may never see.

    Because, professing to be wise,
      And to have found the Truth, the Way,
    I oft am seen in Folly’s guise,
      Unmindful whom I thus betray,--
    Yet so it is that some, through me,
    To heaven’s gate may lose the key.

    Because, professing his dear name
      Whose love is infinitely great,
    My tongue will even friends defame,
      And flashing eyes oft tell of hate,--
    Alas, alas, that some, through me,
    May, hopeless, face eternity!

    (2235)


   =Offerings=--See LOVE’S ACCEPTABLE OFFERING.


                        OFFERINGS, EXTRAVAGANT

   When Alexander was a young man, he was one day present at the
   offering of sacrifices, and Leonnatus, one of his teachers,
   who was standing by, thought he was rather profuse in his
   consumption of frankincense and myrrh, for he was taking it up
   by handfuls and throwing it on the fire. Leonnatus reproved him
   for his extravagance, adding that when he became master of the
   countries where these costly gums were procured he might be as
   prodigal of them as he pleased. Alexander remembered the reproof
   years later, and finding vast stores of these gums in Gaza, he
   sent to Leonnatus large quantities of them, telling him that he
   might not have occasion to be so sparing for the future in his
   sacrifice to the gods. (Text.)

    (2236)


                        OFFERINGS, THE POOREST

   In the middle of the summer season tails of sick cattle are
   principal native offerings at Saint Herbot, a small parish not
   far from Paris, France. The annual cattle fair brings together
   a great number of dealers from all parts of Brittany. Business
   goes on from early morning until three o’clock in the afternoon,
   when every one adjourns to the church and joins in the service,
   at which the benediction of heaven on the worshipers’ heads is
   implored. The custom is for the breeders to cut off the tails of
   sick animals and lay the tails on the altar, the idea being that
   this ceremony will restore the sick animals to health. The tails
   are afterward sold and considerable money realized from the sale.

Many people are just this way toward God. The poorest products of their
life they give to God, and make themselves believe that is giving. To
give the tailings of the threshing floor is to give chaff. To give the
tailings of the reduction mill is to give the low-grade ore. To give
the tail ends of anything is to give the poorest.

    (2237)


                          OFFERINGS, UNWORTHY

   At the heathen festivals in India, the traffickers in
   sacrificial goods resort to all sorts of devices. Low-caste men
   have baskets containing little pigs from two days to a month
   old. These they sell to the high-caste worshipers, cutting the
   throat of the pig in the presence of the buyer and smearing
   some blood upon his pious forehead. But by a trick known to the
   salesman, the windpipe is not severed, so he sells the pig over
   and over. In the same way coconuts are sold whose milk has been
   dry for years, and rotten fruit and blind animals are bought at
   bargains--anything is good enough for offerings to the gods!

    (2238)


                            OFFICE-SEEKING

   Some Missouri Republican, hungry for an office, resorted
   to rather a novel method of attracting the attention of
   Governor-elect Hadley. He cut away the sole from an old shoe,
   carefully removed the pegs, and then, with a lead-pencil,
   addrest a letter on the worn side of the surface. Unfortunately,
   his signature could not be deciphered, nor was the address
   legible.

   Curiosity on the part of those who handled this missive may have
   been in part responsible for its condition when it reached the
   attorney-general’s office. This much could be made out:

   “I am a Republican and want a piece of pie. Anything will do me
   from guard at the penitentiary up as high as you will go. If
   you can’t give me a slice of pie, please save me a bite of the
   crust.”

So long as the spirit of the writer of this unusual epistle is abroad
in the land, politics will be degraded and a better state of things
retarded.

    (2239)


   =Oil on the Waters=--See EXPERIMENT.


   =Old Age=--See IMMORTALITY.


   =Old Age and Work=--See FAME AND TIME.


                            OLD AGE CHEERED

The incident related below by the Rev. Asa Bullard is an example that
ought frequently to be imitated:

   At the “Old People’s Day” in 1881, I was invited to be with Mr.
   Batt. The house was quite full on the occasion. There were sixty
   people present who were over sixty years of age, and twenty-five
   who were eighty years of age or more. A bouquet was presented
   to each of these twenty-five. They arose, as their names were
   called, and received the bouquets as they were presented by
   the hands of children. At the close of the meeting one of
   those addrest said: “It knocked twenty years right off from my
   age.”--“Incidents in a Busy Life.”

    (2240)


                           OLD AGE INCURABLE

The following story is told of John Hay:

   He had been ailing one time, and a friend made bold to ask what
   the trouble was. “I am suffering from an incurable disease,”
   answered Mr. Hay bravely.

   A sense of delicacy prevented the friend from making further
   inquiry; but he told the story to many of his associates,
   nearly all of whom were acquainted with Mr. Hay, and the report
   soon spread around Washington that a deadly disease held the
   Secretary of State within its grasp. One intimate acquaintance
   of Mr. Hay determined to find out the nature of the secretary’s
   ailment, and addrest him one day with the remark: “I have been
   told that you are suffering from an incurable disease. Is it
   true?” “It is,” said Mr. Hay, in a sad tone. “What is the
   incurable disease?” then asked the insistent acquaintance. “Old
   age,” exclaimed Mr. Hay, with a chuckle. (Text.)--Milwaukee
   _Free Press_.

    (2241)


                       OLD, ENCOURAGEMENT TO THE

To feel young and able to take on new duties and perform them
satisfactorily at the age of 73 should put heart into every discouraged
person who is nearing the seventies. Such a person was the matron of
the “rest home” for working girls, Arrity Hale.

   When Arrity Hale was seventy-three years old, her husband having
   died some time before, she began to find it hard work keeping
   her small house going. She never told any one of this, but
   neighbors began to suspect it. A well-known New York family had
   a country-place near the village, and they had always been on
   friendly terms with Mrs. Hale. One member of this family was
   connected with the Working Girls’ Vacation Society, and she,
   with some other women, was contemplating the foundation of a
   home in the neighborhood as a branch of the society.

   The woman in question and her friends interested with her in
   the project, were all alumnæ of Miss Green’s school in this
   city. Miss Green was a famous preceptress a generation or so
   ago, and she numbered in her classes at No. 1 Fifth Avenue
   many of the girls who are now the society matrons of the city.
   After teaching three generations of pupils, and when she was
   considerably more than seventy years old, she decided to give up
   her work.

   Her old pupils determined to do something in her honor,
   something that would be a lasting tribute to her, and acting
   upon a suggestion from her, they determined to purchase a
   cottage in the country to be used as a rest-home for working
   girls during their summer vacations. That was how the “L. M.
   Green Cottage” was established.

   Knowing that Arrity Hale was not in the best of circumstances,
   they approached her with an offer to buy her farm and establish
   her in it as matron. She eagerly accepted, and the plan was at
   once put in operation. Some of the members of the society were
   rather dubious about putting a woman over seventy years old
   in charge of a houseful of girls, but in a season or two this
   feeling had entirely disappeared. Mrs. Hale had no trouble at
   all.

   Every girl who visited the Green Cottage left with a regret that
   she could not spend all her life there. (Text.)

    (2242)


                           OLD, HOW TO GROW

    Softly, oh, softly the years have swept by thee,
      Touching thee lightly with tenderest care;
    Sorrow and death they have often brought nigh thee,
      Yet have they left thee but beauty to wear.
            Growing old gracefully,
              Gracefully fair.

    Far from the storms that are lashing the ocean,
      Nearer each day to that pleasant home-light;
    Far from the waves that are big with commotion,
      Under full sail and the harbor in sight;
            Growing old cheerfully,
              Cheerful and bright.

    Past all the winds that were adverse and chilling,
      Past all the islands that lured thee to rest,
    Past all the currents that lured thee unwilling
      Far from thy course to the Land of the Blest;
            Growing old peacefully,
              Peaceful and blest.

    Never a feeling of envy or sorrow
      When the bright faces of children are seen,
    Never a year from the young wouldst thou borrow--
      Thou dost remember what lieth between;
            Growing old willingly,
              Thankful, serene.

    Rich in experience that angels might covet;
      Rich in a faith that has grown with thy years,
    Rich in a love that grew from and about it,
      Soothing thy sorrows and hushing thy fears;
            Growing old wealthily,
              Loving and dear.

    Hearts at the sound of thy coming are lightened,
      Ready and willing thy hand to relieve;
    Many a face at thy kind word has brightened;
      “It is more blessed to give than receive.”
            Growing old happily,
              Ceasing to grieve.

    (2243)


                            OLD-TIME REVELS

   Talk about dissipations, ye who have ever seen the old-fashioned
   sideboard! Did I not have an old relative who always, when
   visitors came, used to go up-stairs and take a drink through
   economical habits, not offering anything to his visitors? On
   the old-fashioned training-days the most sober men were apt
   to take a day to themselves. Many of the familiar drinks of
   to-day were unknown to them, but their hard cider, mint julep,
   metheglin, hot toddy and lemonade in which the lemon was not at
   all prominent, sometimes made lively work for the broad-brimmed
   hats and silver knee-buckles. Talk of dissipating parties of
   to-day and keeping of late hours! Why, did they not have their
   “bees” and sausage-stuffings and tea-parties and dances, that
   for heartiness and uproar utterly eclipsed all the waltzes,
   lanciers, redowas and breakdowns of the nineteenth century, and
   they never went home till morning.--T. DE WITT TALMAGE.

    (2244)


   =Old Truths=--See SOLIDITY OF OLD TRUTHS.


                           OLD-YEAR MEMORIES

    Let us forget the things that vext and tried us,
      The worrying things that caused our souls to fret;
    The hopes that, cherished long, were still denied us
            Let us forget.

    Let us forget the little slights that pained us,
      The greater wrongs that rankle sometimes yet;
    The pride with which some lofty one disdained us
            Let us forget.

    Let us forget our brother’s fault and failing,
      The yielding to temptation that beset,
    That he perchance, tho grief be unavailing,
            Can not forget.

    But blessings manifold, past all deserving,
      Kind words and helpful deeds, a countless throng,
    The fault o’ercome, the rectitude unswerving,
            Let us remember long.

    The sacrifice of love, the generous giving,
      When friends were few, the hand-clasp warm and strong,
    The fragrance of each life of holy living,
            Let us remember long.

    Whatever things were good and true and gracious,
      Whate’er of right has triumphed over wrong,
    What love of God or man has rendered precious,
            Let us remember long.

    So, pondering well the lessons it has taught us,
      We tenderly may bid the year “Good-by,”
    Holding in memory the good it brought us,
            Letting the evil die.  (Text.)

    --SUSAN E. GAMMON, _Christian Advocate_.

    (2245)


   =Omens=--See SUPERSTITION.


                              OMNISCIENCE

Here is a sentiment of the Psalms repeated in distant Japan by one who,
perhaps, had never read about the all-seeing One who “understandeth our
thoughts afar off”:

    Take heed unto thyself; the mighty God
    That is the soul of nature, sees the good
    And bad that man in his most secret heart
    Thinks by himself, and brings it to the light.
    (Text.)--Her Majesty the Empress HARUKO
      of Japan. Translated by ARTHUR LLOYD.

    (2246)

       *       *       *       *       *

   There was in my regiment during the Civil War--I was chaplain--a
   certain corporal, a gay-hearted fellow and a good soldier, of
   whom I was very fond--with whom on occasion of his recovery
   from a dangerous sickness I felt it my duty to have a serious
   pastoral talk; and while he convalesced I watched for an
   opportunity for it. As I sat one day on the side of his bed
   in the hospital tent chatting with him, he asked me what the
   campaign, when by and by spring opened, was going to be. I
   told him that I didn’t know. “Well,” said he, “I suppose that
   General McClellan knows all about it.” (This was away back in
   1861, not long after we went to the field.) I answered: “General
   McClellan has his plans, of course, but he doesn’t know. Things
   may not turn out as he expects.” “But,” said the corporal,
   “President Lincoln knows, doesn’t he?” “No,” I said, “he doesn’t
   know, either. He has his ideas, but he can’t see ahead any more
   than General McClellan can.” “Dear me,” said the corporal,
   “it would be a great comfort if there was somebody that did
   know about things”--and I saw my chance. “True, corporal,”
   I observed, “that’s a very natural feeling; and the blest
   fact is there is One who does know everything, both past and
   future, about you and me, and about this army; who knows when
   we are going to move, and where to, and what’s going to happen;
   knows the whole thing.” “Oh,” says the corporal, “you mean old
   Scott!”--JOSEPH H. TWICHELL.

    (2247)


   =Omnipresence, A Wrestle with=--See CHILDREN’S RELIGIOUS IDEAS.


   =One Idea, The Man With=--See ENGROSSMENT IN BUSINESS.


                             ONE, WINNING

   In St. John’s Church, in the little town of Beverley, England,
   one stormy evening in December, 1853, a meeting of the church
   missionary society was being held at which a scant audience
   was present, including just one young man, who on the Sunday
   previous had been particularly invited to attend. The vicar
   of the church, the Rev. A. T. Carr, suggested a postponement,
   but the speaker, a venerable rector of a near-by town, replied
   that those who had braved the storm were entitled to hear the
   message intended for them. The service over, that lone young
   man trudged homeward, when the thought came to him: “I was the
   only young man there. Why should not I become a missionary? May
   not the Lord have something for me to do in heathen lands?” The
   resolution was made. That young man was William Duncan, now
   known as “The Apostle of Alaska,” whose missionary triumphs
   among the Indians of the Alaskan coast have won the admiration
   of the world.

To win the one is sometimes to win the many. (Text.)

    (2248)


   =Open Allegiance=--See CHURCH MEMBERSHIP.


   =Open Door to China=--See CHINESE PROGRESS.


                           OPENNESS OF MIND

   The Mediterranean is practically a tideless sea, and yet the
   visitor to its waters is puzzled at the discovery of what
   appears to be a tide. But the explanation is that there is a
   connection between the Atlantic Ocean and the Mediterranean
   Sea, so that what seems to be a tide at Gibraltar is simply the
   rolling waves from the tide of the mighty Atlantic into the sea
   that washes the shores of southern Europe and northern Africa.
   As long as the channel at the Straits of Gibraltar is open,
   so long will there be this rolling in, and so there will be a
   constant influx of blessing while communication with God is
   unhindered.

    (2249)

   See SOURCE OF BLESSING.


                           OPINION, CHANGED

   When General Ewell was asked what he thought of Jackson’s
   generalship in the Shenandoah Valley campaign, he replied:

   “When he began it, I thought him crazy. Before he got through, I
   thought him inspired.” --_The Sunday Magazine._

    (2250)


   =Opinionatedness=--See INDIVIDUALISM, EXCESSIVE.


                               OPINIONS

   Wesley himself said once to his preachers, “I have no more right
   to object to a man for holding a different opinion from my own
   than I have to differ with a man because he wears a wig and I
   wear my own hair, tho I have a right to object if he shakes the
   powder about my eyes.”--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His
   Century.”

    (2251)


                        OPPORTUNITIES, IMPROVED

   Whitefield preached under conditions and to audiences known to
   no other orators. Passing over Hampton Common, he finds a crowd
   of 12,000 people collected to see a man hung in chains. Here is
   an audience, a pulpit, a text; and straightway he captures the
   crowd! He preaches to another vast multitude assembled to see a
   man hanged, and the hangman himself suspends his office while
   Whitefield discourses. Some wandering players have set up their
   stage at a country fair; the crowd rushes together to grin and
   jest. But Whitefield suddenly appears, turns the whole scene
   to religious uses, spoils the players’ harvest, and preaches a
   sermon of overwhelming power.--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley
   and His Century.”

    (2252)


                       OPPORTUNITIES UNUTILIZED

   The Macon _Telegraph_ says that Macon men in Florida laugh to
   see natives opening canned tomatoes in sight of tomato plants
   loaded with ripe fruit. Then the said Macon men go to their
   own homes and buy Florida shad, at Washington Market prices,
   altho their own river is full of them; and the _Telegraph_
   asks: “Is it not a little singular?” Bless you, no! The same
   sort of thing is going on all over the country. There is not
   a year when hams and bacon do not bring higher prices in some
   great pork-producing counties of the West than they do in New
   York. There are Southern counties where the watermelon grows
   so easily that the small boy scorns to steal it, yet in some
   towns in these counties a watermelon costs twice as much as in
   any Northern city. There are cattle-ranches in the West where
   milk, when there is any, brings fifty cents a quart, and great
   grain farms on the prairies whose owners never in their lives
   tasted an ear of sweet-corn. And, coming back to the shad, there
   are times when these fish are running up our own river by tens
   of thousands that a breakfast of shad costs more than one of
   beefsteak, altho the shad comes right to town and needs only
   to be taken from a net, while the beef has to be fed at least
   three years and then brought half-way across the continent by
   rail. No, there’s nothing singular about it, except in the fact
   that where food products most abound human nature seems most
   incompetent to make full use of its opportunities. America is,
   above all others, a land of plenty, but no one would imagine
   it after looking at a price-list of family supplies.--New York
   _Herald_.

    (2253)


                              OPPORTUNITY

Senator J. J. Ingalls wrote the first of these poems not long before he
died, the only poetry he is known to have composed. In reply, Walter
Malone wrote the second selection:

                                   I

    Master of human destinies am I,
      Fame, love and fortune on my footsteps wait,
      Cities and fields I walk; I penetrate
    Deserts and seas remote, and, passing by
      Hovel and mart and palace, soon or late
      I knock, unbidden, once at every gate:
    If sleeping, wake--if feasting, rise before
      I turn away. It is the hour of fate,
      And they who follow me, reach every state
    Mortals desire and conquer every foe
      Save death; but those who doubt or hesitate,
    Condemned to failure, penury, and wo;
    Seek me in vain, and uselessly implore:
    I answer not, and I return no more.

                                  II

    They do me wrong who say I come no more,
      When once I knock and fail to find you in;
    For every day I stand outside your door,
      And bid you wake to ride, to fight, and win.
    Wail not for precious chances passed away,
      Weep not for golden ages on the wane!
    Each night I burn the records of the day,
      At sunrise every soul is born again.
    Laugh like a boy at splendors that have sped,
      To vanished joys be blind and deaf and dumb;
    My judgment seal the dead past with its dead,
      But never bind a moment yet to come.
    Tho deep in mire, wring not your hands and weep:
      I lend my arm to all who say, “I can!”
    No shamefaced outcast ever sank so deep,
      But yet might rise and be again a man.
    Dost thou behold thy lost youth all aghast?
      Dost reel from righteous retribution’s blow?
    Then turn from blotted archives of the past,
      And find the future’s pages white as snow.
    Art thou a mourner? Rouse thee from thy spell!
      Art thou a sinner? Sins may be forgiven.
    Each morning gives thee wings to flee from hell,
      Each night a star to guide thy feet to heaven.

    (2254)

       *       *       *       *       *

The importance of seizing opportunities as they pass by is realized by
astronomers who study the sun’s corona:

   The study of the corona of the sun is limited to the few brief
   moments of total solar eclipse; to some five or six minutes
   every few years. For this purpose expeditions are fitted out and
   sent to the most favorable locations; and the astro-physicist
   utilizes every moment of totality in obtaining photographs and
   spectographs for measurements and study.--CHARLES LANE
   POOR, “The Solar System.”

    (2255)

       *       *       *       *       *

Howard B. Gross, pleading for better conditions for the “submerged”
classes, says:

   The other day, after Easter, I took a lily which I had bought
   for my wife--it had withered and grown yellow--I took the ugly
   thing and threw it into the back yard, and as I threw it the pot
   broke, and I saw a thousand little rootlets beating against the
   pot, hungry for air and moisture, and I planted that ugly thing
   in the soft and tender soil, where the morning sun could smile
   upon it, and the noonday sun not smite it, and the fairest thing
   which ever grew in the garden grew out of that despised and
   dried thing which had no chance to grow. All these people need
   is the full, free, fair chance that we have had.

    (2256)

       *       *       *       *       *

Single acts and moments are fraught with destiny.

   Esau filled his life with regret for trifling one day; Esther’s
   was full of glory for one day’s courage. Peter slept one hour
   and lost a matchless opportunity; Mary’s name is fragrant
   forever for the loving deed of a day. Do your best now.
   (Text.)--MALTBIE BABCOCK.

    (2257)

       *       *       *       *       *

Some men make their opportunities.

   Less than sixteen years ago a clergyman was called to two
   New York parishes. One was thriving, the other was standing
   still, the duty of existence growing heavier with each year of
   inactivity. He chose the latter church, because, as he said,
   “there was more work to do.” At that time his congregation
   was never large and bad weather often made it very small. It
   had a Sunday-school of less than fifty members and the Sunday
   services were practically the end of the week’s labor. People
   were moving rapidly farther uptown; the churches were going with
   them, and St. Bartholomew’s, at that time one of the smaller
   Episcopal parishes, while it was stubbornly holding its place,
   was gradually weakening. And so it was, comparatively inactive,
   half forsaken, when Dr. Greer came to it.

   Dr. Greer left St. Bartholomew’s recently perhaps the most
   powerful single Protestant organization in the world, a church
   that spends more than two hundred thousand dollars a year, the
   old edifice remodeled and crowded to the doors of a Sunday
   morning, a parish house in the midst of the maelstrom of
   East Side life; six Sunday-schools aggregating two thousand
   members, two in English, one in Armenian, one in Chinese,
   one in German, one in Swedish; industrial schools, clubs, an
   employment bureau that obtains positions for one hundred people
   a week, a clinic that cares for one hundred and fifty people a
   day, a boarding-house for girls, and many other important cogs
   in an immense and constantly active machine of religious and
   philanthropic endeavor. It was built up piece by piece, getting
   greater support as it proved itself, just as any factory or
   business grows. (Text.)--ARTHUR GOODRICH, _Leslie’s
   Monthly_.

    (2258)

       *       *       *       *       *

   There is an Indian legend of a good spirit who, wishing to
   benefit a young princess, led her into a ripe and golden
   corn-field. “See these ears of corn, my daughter; if thou wilt
   pluck them diligently, they will turn to precious jewels; the
   richer the ear of corn, the brighter the gem. But thou mayest
   only once pass through this corn-field, and canst not return the
   same way.” The maiden gladly accepted the offer. As she went on,
   many ripe and full ears of corn she found in her path, but she
   did not pluck them, always hoping to find better ones farther
   on. But presently the stems grew thinner, the ears poorer, with
   scarcely any grains of wheat on them; further on they were
   blighted, and she did not think them worth picking. Sorrowfully
   she stood at the end of the field, for she could not go back
   the same way, regretting the loss of the golden ears she had
   overlooked and lost.

To each of us are golden opportunities offered; life speeds on to the
goal from which there is no return; let us redeem the time, for fields
are white to harvest.--_Illustrated Missionary News._

    (2259)


   =Opportunity, American=--See AMERICAN OPPORTUNITY.


   =Opportunity, Business=--See BUSINESS CHANCES.


                       OPPORTUNITY IN THE ORIENT

   Let me remind you of that great painting called “Anno Domini,”
   which perhaps some of you have seen, and which vividly
   illustrates the unprecedented opportunity to-day in the
   extreme Orient. It represents an Egyptian temple from whose
   spacious courts a brilliant procession of soldiers, statesmen,
   philosophers, artists, musicians, and priests is advancing in
   triumphal march, bearing a huge idol, the challenge and the
   boast of heathenism. Across the pathway of the procession is an
   ass, whose bridle is held by a reverent-looking man, and upon
   whose back is a fair young mother with her infant child. It is
   Jesus entering Egypt in flight from the wrath of Herod, and thus
   crossing the path of aggressive heathenism. The clock strikes
   and the Christian era begins.--ARTHUR JUDSON BROWN,
   “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (2260)


                           OPPORTUNITY LOST

Everybody knows now of the telephone and its large usefulness. It was
not so, however, back in the seventies. Dr. Alexander Graham Bell had
hard work to arouse interest, and harder yet to enlist capital, in his
invention. In an account of the struggles of those early days, the
following incident appears:

   He resolved on a desperate move, and he went to Chauncey M.
   Depew and offered him a one-sixth interest in the company if he
   would loan $10,000 to put the company on its feet. Depew took
   a week to consider the proposition. At the end of the week he
   wrote back that the incident might be considered closed. The
   telephone was a clever idea, but it was utterly lacking in
   commercial possibilities, and $10,000 was far too big a sum to
   risk in marketing an instrument that at best could never be more
   than a source of amusement.

   Thus Depew let slip an opportunity to acquire for $10,000
   an interest that to-day could not be bought for less than
   $25,000,000.

    (2261)

       *       *       *       *       *

The New York _Sun_ is authority for the following story:

   A Provincetown man, out on his first trip as captain of a
   whaling-vessel, about thirty years ago, stopt at one of the
   West India Islands on his way home. One of the natives offered
   him five small lumps of a dirty-looking substance which the
   native asserted was good for something. The native further
   informed the captain that he had got these pieces from a dead
   whale which was ashore on a certain beach and that there was
   plenty more in the carcass.

   Did the captain hoist all sail and get to that dead whale as
   fast as the winds of Providence would permit? Not a bit of it.
   He had been made captain for the purpose of going after sperm
   oil, and he concluded that he’d better stick to his job. So he
   gave the native a pair of blue overalls and a jumper for the
   five dirty lumps and went on his way.

   After he had made port he showed the five lumps to Mr. Stull,
   and when the latter gave him $700 for them he almost had a fit.
   Still that shock was nothing to what he got a little later, for
   he learned that another captain had heard of the dead whale, had
   got what ambergris still remained in the carcass and had sold it
   in New York for $30,000. It was estimated that this whale must
   have contained in all at least $50,000 worth of ambergris.

    (2262)


   =Opportunity Seized=--See SUPPLY AND DEMAND.


                              OPPOSITION

   Ornithologists assure us that the eagle, the condor of the
   Andes, the albatross of the Pacific, and even the swiftly-flying
   little dove, like many other birds that are strong on the wing,
   can fly more swiftly against a wind than in a gentle breeze. It
   may be that this is because they are thus stimulated to exert
   the muscular strength of their pinions. But, however this may
   be, it is a fact that the fires of a steamship burn much more
   fiercely under the boilers when the vessel is going against a
   head-wind.

Christian effort of the right kind is at its best when opposition is
faced, for this very condition brings us into contact with the divine
resources which are ever on our side.

    (2263)


                     OPPOSITION TO MISSIONARY WORK

   I heard a little while ago of a member of one of our churches
   in Pennsylvania whose son graduated from a theological seminary
   and sent word home to his father that he had decided to be a
   missionary, and asking him for his approval; and the father
   sat down in a towering rage and wrote back to him something
   like this: “This is absolutely the saddest message I have ever
   received from you. I could have wished that you had died in
   infancy, as your brother did, rather than that things should
   come to such a pass as this. You never will get my consent
   to do such a rash and foolish thing. I will cut you entirely
   off from any share in my inheritance, unless you give up this
   idea forever; and I do not care to see your face again until
   you have given it up.” Imagine that kind of an answer from a
   professing Christian! In spite of it, the man is in Japan as a
   missionary to-day. Would it not be far more Christlike to take
   the attitude that my friends, Mr. and Mrs. Paton did over at
   Pittsburg three years ago, when their only child, a beautiful,
   clever, tender girl, came to them one day and said she wanted to
   be a missionary out in Africa? And they were so much in sympathy
   with Christ that they said, “We shall be very glad to have you
   go.” Then, as they thought and prayed over it for a few days,
   they decided that they could not let anybody else support their
   daughter, and so they sent word to the mission board that they
   wanted to have the privilege for the rest of their lives of
   paying their daughter’s salary while she worked over yonder in
   Africa. And when one and another of their friends came to them,
   protesting against this madness in sending their only child away
   off to bury her life in the heart of Africa, their simple answer
   to these critics was in words like these, “Our Lord has given
   His best to us, and our best is not too good for Him.”--J.
   CAMPBELL WHITE, “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (2264)


                               OPTIMISM

The following verses are by M. A. Kidder:

    There is many a rest in the road of life,
      If we only would stop to take it,
    And many a tone from the better land,
      If the querulous heart would wake it.
    To the sunny soul that is full of hope,
      And whose beautiful trust ne’er faileth,
    The grass is green and the flowers are bright,
      Tho the wintry storm prevaileth.

    There is ever a gem in the path of life,
      Which we pass in our idle pleasure,
    That is richer far than the jeweled crown,
      Or the miser’s hoarded treasure.
    It may be the love of a little child;
      Or a mother’s prayers to heaven;
    Or only a beggar’s grateful thanks
      For a cup of water given.

    Better to weave in the web of life
      A bright and golden filling,
    And to do God’s will with a ready heart
      And hands that are swift and willing,
    Than to snap the delicate, slender threads
      Of our curious lives asunder.
    And then blame heaven for the tangled ends,
      And sit, and grieve, and wonder.

    (2265)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Kate Sanborn tells of an old lady of her acquaintance,
   eighty-three years of age, who is famous among all who know her
   for her happy cheerfulness. One day when she was choked by a
   bread-crumb at the table, she said to the frightened waiter as
   soon as she could regain her breath: “Never mind if that did go
   down the wrong way. A great many good things have gone down the
   right way this winter.” (Text.)--LOUIS ALBERT BANKS.

    (2266)

       *       *       *       *       *

In answer to the question, “What is optimism?” this humorous instance
was recently given:

   A man lost his balance and fell from the fortieth story of the
   Singer Building, Broadway, New York. As he passed each story
   going down he said to himself, “It is all right so far.” That
   was optimism.

    (2267)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Once I got hard up and went down and sold the best suit I had
   to get bread, and I had my shoes half-soled, and that night
   some fellow stole my shoes, and the next morning the snow was
   ten inches deep, and I got up, and looked out of the window,
   and I said, “I would rather have feet and no shoes than shoes
   with no feet.” I like the fellow that goes along without
   growling.--“Popular Lectures of Sam P. Jones.”

    (2268)

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. A. E. Winship tells this story:

   It was eleven o’clock on as disagreeable a night as Chicago knew
   last winter that I ordered a cab to take me to the Northwestern
   Station. Carriages were scarce, and I was asked to ride with
   another man.

   “A good night this!”

   “Humph,” I replied, “if anybody likes this kind, I don’t.”

   “It is just the tonic I need for my eighty-two years. It blows
   the blues all out of a man if he ever had them, which I never
   do.”

   “Do you often ride nights at your time of life?”

   “Nearly every night; it does me good.”

   “Oh, I beg your pardon. This is Doctor Willetts.”

   “Certainly, and I would have been nursing old age twenty years
   ago if I had ever found anything bad in life. A night like this!
   Why, to growl about it, it would take a year off my life.”

   Thanks to Doctor Willetts I have not seen bad weather since, and
   I never shall.

    (2269)

   See PROPHECY.


   =Optimists, The, and the Pessimists=--See LOADS, BALKING UNDER.


                                ORATORY

   There are men in legislative assemblies who speak often, but
   are never masters of any situation. They have great powers
   of utterance, but nothing to say. The orator whose burning
   sentences become the very proverbs of freedom is not he who
   consumes the most time and employs the selectest paragraphs. I
   have seen men in Congress often on their legs and buzzing about
   like able-bodied darning-needles, but they never managed, even
   by accident, to sting anybody into attention.--JAMES T.
   FIELDS.

    (2270)


   =Order=--See SYSTEM IN LABOR.


   =Order, The Natural=--See PLAN IN NATURE.


                       ORGANIZATION, INDUSTRIAL

   The farmer who tills his own soil, the man in the shop who
   is his own employer, the proprietor of the small factory, as
   well as the manager of the greatest manufacturing corporation
   and his subordinates, are each concerned with the problems of
   organization in their special work.

   Thousands of farmers to-day are eking out a scanty subsistence
   because of a lack of intelligence in the proper organization
   of the activities of farm life. Thousands of manufacturing
   establishments are upon the verge of bankruptcy or are reducing
   dividends for the same reason. Industrial education confined
   to the production of skilled workmen might prolong the agony,
   but would not avert the final disaster, because of lack of
   intelligence in the organization of means to ends in the
   particular productive enterprise. Thousands of firms concerned
   with the distribution of products fail annually, not because of
   lack of interest on the part of those who are managing them, but
   because of lack of skilful organization of the various forces
   whose action is necessary to success.

   The schools do not exist to-day which undertake to give
   instruction in these particular fields. Even the body of
   knowledge which would form the proper field of study has not
   been organized and put into teachable form. Even the beginnings
   have hardly been made toward industrial education in this
   particular field.--LORENZO D. HARVEY, “Proceedings of
   the National Education Association,” 1909.

    (2271)


                          ORGANIZING FOR WORK

   The difference between a locomotive engine and a pile of
   scrap-iron is that the one is organized and the other is not.
   In the case of the engine machinery, side arms, driving-wheels
   and whistle--all have their place and part. So have driver and
   stoker. And it is the organized power and effort that bring
   results.

Many men have enough good moral material for a fine character, but have
not yet put it in effective order, and so can not bring it to bear.
(Text.)

    (2272)


   =Orient, The, and Opportunity=--See OPPORTUNITY IN THE ORIENT.


   =Original Sin=--See SIN, ORIGINAL.


                           ORIGINAL SOURCES

The history of the Christian religion might conceivably be written as
was this history named below:

   Dr. Thomas Addis Emmet found the histories of the American
   Revolution so full of errors that, in his disgust, he resolved
   to make some history that could not lie. The result was the
   unique folios now in the keeping of the Lenox library, in which
   the author has never written a word, but has told the story
   by the assembling of original documents and letters. He never
   allowed himself to insert a copy, no matter how many hundred
   dollars the original document might cost him.

    (2273)


                              ORIGINALITY

   A really fertile creative mind has got to produce--wheat and
   tares, flowers and weeds--all springing from a rich soil.
   Contrary to the general belief, there is nothing so deadly to
   the writer of creative power as a too early development of
   the critical faculty. That is why the young man who is always
   conscious of Lowell and Emerson looking over his shoulder never
   is original.--ROBERT BRIDGES, _Collier’s Weekly_.

    (2274)

       *       *       *       *       *

   As Plutarch tells us, “it is well to go for a light to another
   man’s fire, but not to tarry by it, instead of kindling a torch
   of one’s own.” A torch of one’s own!--that is a possession
   worth having, whether it be a flaming beacon on the hilltop or
   a tiny taper in the window. We can not tell how far a little
   candle throws its beams, nor who is laying his course by its
   flickering light. The most that we can do--and it is also the
   least we should do--is to tend the flame carefully and to keep
   it steady.--BRANDER MATTHEWS.

    (2275)

   See NEWNESS OF EACH SOUL.


                          ORIGINALITY OF MAN

   If we mean by individuality differences in character and
   disposition, then is there a fair measure of individuality
   among the animals. No two animals are just alike, any more than
   any two trees are just alike. But if we mean the possession
   of striking original traits, unique powers and capacities, as
   among men, then there is very little. Animals do not differ in
   the degree that men differ. What one does all of its kind will
   sooner or later do. Anything you can learn of one bird or beast
   that is not true of every member of its species is unimportant.

   I, myself, like to dwell upon what seems like individual
   differences in the manners and characters of the birds and the
   mammals. We all love the specific and characteristic; but we
   are aware of these differences mainly because we have a few
   birds or mammals under observation and not the whole class.
   Some day we shall observe the same trait or habit in another of
   the same class. We see something in the eye or the face of a
   member of one’s own family and think it peculiar and original;
   then, in the face of an Eskimo or a Cossack, we see the same
   look.--JOHN BURROUGHS, _The Independent_.

    (2276)


   =Origins, Unknown=--See UNKNOWN REALITIES.


                             OSSIFICATION

The London _Mail_ reports this sad case:

   An honored guest at most of the London hospitals is a tall, slim
   man, with a thin face, who has to move about with extreme care,
   because if he happened to fall down he might break in several
   places.

   He is literally a fragile man, who has to walk with something of
   the stiffness of “La Poupée.” A violent fall would be disastrous
   to him. He is suffering from a rare and painless disease which,
   in the words of one of the doctors who has seen him, turns him
   into “a porcelain man.” Alban Rushbrook, aged thirty-five, has
   for seven years been suffering from _myositis ossificans_;
   his muscles are turning into bone. He can walk, but he can not
   sit in a chair, and it is difficult for him to turn his head far
   to the right or left. The muscles of his chest, back and thighs
   are all turning to bone. He lies flat in bed. When he desires to
   rise he is shifted to the edge of the bed, and his rigid body is
   tipped up till his feet touch the floor. A stick is placed in
   his hand, and he can then make his way in a straight line ahead.

    (2277)


                              OSTENTATION

   The boxes in the temple treasury were shaped like trumpets.
   Jesus said, “Do not make a trumpet of the box; it looks like
   one, but do not use it for the purpose of calling attention to
   what you are about to put into it.” (Text.)

    (2278)


                         OSTENTATION, SNOBBISH

Occasionally great wealth publishes itself in an unbecoming and
distasteful manner, as the following suggests:

   The son of the New York millionaire, John W. Gates, dislikes to
   have bills of such small denomination as $100 littering up his
   pockets, says the Philadelphia _Press_.

   The last time Mr. and Mrs. Gates came to this city in their
   automobile they stopt at the Bellevue-Stratford. When he asked
   for his bill he found it amounted to a paltry $70. Opening a
   huge wallet, he handed out a thousand-dollar note. This was
   fondly laid away and the cashier began to count hundred-dollar
   bills in change.

   “My word,” said Mr. Gates, dropping into the vernacular of the
   metropolis, “I can’t carry that truck around with me. Send my
   bill to New York and I will mail you a check.”

   Calling hundred-dollar bills “truck” was more than the porters
   who heard it could stand. If they had not been so well trained
   they would have forgotten to carry Mr. Gates’ dress-suit case
   out to his automobile.

    (2279)


                            OTHER SIDE, THE

   “There’s another side,” said the minister’s wife softly.

   “How do you know?” asked the visitor who had told the
   discreditable little tale strictly in confidence, as she herself
   had learned it in the bosom of the Wednesday afternoon sewing
   circle. The minister’s wife had not been present, and it was
   only right that she should be put right about this family of
   newcomers in the parish. “Some things had come to the ears of
   the sewing circle that were not--well, not exactly--”

   “There’s another side!” repeated the minister’s wife, not so
   softly this time. In fact, there was a noticeable little ring of
   indignation in her tone, which died out in a sort of wondering
   pity as she noticed the challenging look of her caller. “You’re
   glad there is another side, aren’t you? Why, of course you are.
   And, you see, I know all about it.”

   “You weren’t at the meeting,” said the other stiffly. “If you
   had been, you--”

   “No, I was there--at the house. And I saw--I saw--oh, Mrs.
   Babbitt, if you could have seen what I saw.”

   “I saw, too--with my own eyes! That daughter of theirs is an
   opium--”

   “She isn’t their daughter--not any relation; not even a friend
   or a friend’s daughter, just a poor girl who had been sick so
   long and suffered so terribly that the doctors themselves had
   made her a victim of the opium habit. And they have undertaken
   to try to cure her. They have given up their home--their very
   lives--to it. They don’t say a word about it. I just found it
   out--with the help of the doctor.”

   The visitor rose suddenly, almost unceremoniously. For a moment
   the hostess looked troubled and aghast. Had she spoken too
   sharply, discourteously, even? Her mind fled back over the
   interview as she faltered: “You are not going yet? You--oh, you
   aren’t offended at anything I’ve said?”

   “Yes, I’m going. Offended--I? I’m going round to see all our
   ladies, every single one of them!”

   “And tell them?--”

   The minister’s wife held her breath for the answer. One may be
   very bold, but it sometimes means a great deal to offend “the
   ladies.”

   “And tell them,” said the caller, gathering her wraps about her,
   “that beautiful ‘other side!’”

   “Oh!” breathed the minister’s wife gratefully. “And tell them,
   won’t you, that there always is another side, always, always!
   And it is our Christian business to try and find it.”--ANNA
   BURNHAM BRYANT, _Zion’s Herald_.

    (2280)


                       OTHERS, CONSIDERATION FOR

Among the regular announcements printed each week in the calendar of
the Temple Baptist Church, Los Angeles, Cal., when the Rev. Robert J.
Burdette was pastor, was the following:

   Out of Christian consideration for others, the women will please
   remove their hats before the beginning of the sermon.

   There was general conformity with a request so courteous and so
   Christian. In a large audience of several thousand there will,
   of course, be occasional transgressors. When the number of
   transgressors was exasperatingly large, the startled ears of the
   offenders were in danger of being greeted with a pronunciamento
   from the pastor, ordinarily the gentlest of men, usually in this
   spoken form:

   “If the lady with the becoming hat will kindly notice how hard
   the man behind her is dodging, trying to see the preacher, she
   will undoubtedly be obliging enough to take down her millinery,
   postpone her halo, and conform to the customs of this church.”
   The effect is generally satisfactory to the audience, and the
   wearer’s self-respect is preserved in a trying episode. (Text.)

    (2281)


   =Outcome=--See DIRECTION.


   =Outlawry=--See LAWLESSNESS.


   =Outstripping Danger=--See AHEAD OF CIRCUMSTANCES.


   =Overcoming Obstacles=--See ENERGY, INDOMITABLE.


   =Overdoing=--See COMPARISONS, APT.


                          OVERDOING DANGEROUS

   On all sides we may see that the stern laws which are necessary
   to our development may become exhaustive and destructive,
   passing beyond a given limit, as in athletics a man may be
   overtrained. And all this is just as true of our moral as it
   is of our physical and intellectual nature. A fair share of
   hardship develops heroic qualities, but when existence becomes
   too hard it breaks the spirit; the child cruelly treated becomes
   cowed; men and women bred in misfortune’s school become timid,
   nervous, cowardly. So, if heaven did not temper life, the finer
   qualities could never be developed in us. Burdens too heavy
   to be borne would break our heart; temptations too fiery, or
   protracted, wear out our patience; sorrows too acute drink
   up our spirit. Overborne by unmitigated pressure, we should
   lose all faith, courage, hope; nothing would be left to us but
   atheism, cynicism, despair.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The
   Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (2282)


                              OVERLOADING

   A horse drawing a load of freight was going down the grade on
   Seneca Street (Buffalo). The weight of the load sent it forward
   on the animal’s heels. The driver pulled up the horse to steady
   him. The load slid forward still faster--the horse slipt and
   fell.

   A little crowd gathered. The horse was unhitched as it lay
   panting on its side with its fore-legs skinned from the knee
   down from contact with the ice. The animal struggled to rise,
   but could not gain a foothold. Then some one placed a folded
   blanket under the horse’s fore-feet, and he got up and stood
   shivering from the strain.

   Just a common street scene.

   But it has a moral in the opinion of the Society for the
   Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, which is, “don’t overload.”

   “I do wish that teamsters and owners of work-horses could be
   brought to understand that it does not pay to overload their
   wagons,” said Miss Jessie C. Hall, office secretary of the
   society.

   “Just now the overloading of wagons is causing no end of trouble
   and complaints are pouring in every day. If drivers would take
   smaller loads it would pay in the end. Only this morning an
   agent of the society was called to Broadway and Gibson Street
   where a horse had fallen down. It was so badly hurt that it had
   to be destroyed.”

    (2283)


                           OVERPLUS OF DUTY

This testimony by an expert should interest particularly those just
starting in life:

   Andrew Carnegie, in a recent address before a graduating class
   in New York, said:

   “There are several classes of young men. There are those who do
   not do all their duty, there are those who profess to do their
   duty, and there is a third class, far better than the other two,
   that do their duty and a little more.

   “There are many great pianists, but Paderewski is at the head
   because he does a little more than the others. There are
   hundreds of race-horses, but it is those who go a few seconds
   faster than the others that acquire renown. So it is in the
   sailing of yachts. It is the little more that wins. So it is
   with the young and old men who do a little more than their duty.
   Do your duty and a little more, and the future will take care of
   itself.” (Text.)

    (2284)


   =Overproduction in Nature=--See DESTRUCTION NECESSARY.


   =Overshadowed=--See LIVING IN THE SHADOW.


                               OVERSIGHT

Many a good plan has failed through oversight of some forgotten or
neglected factor.

   Two years after Mr. Cassatt became general manager of the
   Pennsylvania Railroad, Robert Garrett walked into the office of
   George B. Roberts, then president, and exclaimed gleefully: “Mr.
   Roberts, we have secured control of the Philadelphia, Wilmington
   and Baltimore Railroad. We are not disposed, however, to disturb
   your relations with the property, and you need not give yourself
   any uneasiness on that score.”

   This road, owned by New England capitalists, extended from
   Philadelphia to Baltimore, and had been operated in the
   interests of the Pennsylvania. The Baltimore and Ohio Railroad,
   always on the lookout for an open path to New York, coveted
   the small but important stretch of track and resented the
   Pennsylvania’s control of it.

   President Roberts was amazed and not a little discomfited by the
   easy assurance of Mr. Garrett. As soon as the exultant Baltimore
   and Ohio man had gone there was a conference between President
   Roberts and Mr. Cassatt.

   “Garrett says they’ve got the P. W. & B.,” said Mr. Roberts.

   “Oh, no, they haven’t,” replied the general manager.

   That night there was a meeting of Pennsylvania Railroad
   directors in New York. Mr. Cassatt was the presiding genius.
   He told them where he could lay his hands on a block of P. W.
   & B. stock that would put the control forever in the hands of
   the Pennsylvania Railroad. Before the directors rose from their
   chairs a check was drawn for $14,949,052.20. It hangs in a frame
   now on the walls of the treasury of the Pennsylvania Railroad,
   canceled to show that the money was there waiting when it was
   presented. At the time it was written, it was the largest
   check ever recorded. The Garretts were completely routed. They
   couldn’t understand how they had come to overlook that block of
   stock, and they were equally at a loss to know how Cassatt had
   discovered it and negotiated the purchase over night.

    (2285)


   =Ownership Settled by Sheep=--See TESTIMONY, A SHEEP’S.


                         OWNERSHIP, THE SOUL’S

Thomas Traherne, a poet whose works became known only after his death,
wrote this verse:

    My infancy no sooner opes its eyes
      But straight the spacious earth
      Abounds with joy, peace, glory, mirth,
    And, being wise,
    The very skies
      And stars do mine become.

    (2286)




                                   P


   =Pace=--See SLOWNESS.


   =Pagan Conception of Death=--See DEATH, CHRISTIAN VIEW OF.


   =Pagan Kindness=--See GENEROSITY.


                            PAGAN THOUGHTS

   On Stanley’s first trip through Africa he came to the King of
   Uganda, who most cordially asked, first of all, for the health
   of Queen Victoria and of the German Emperor. Then he somewhat
   disconcerted the great traveler by asking him, “What news do
   you bring me from above?” This heathen king had a perfect right
   to expect that his visitor was one in heart and idea with that
   greater explorer, David Livingstone. But as Stanley proceeded
   westward he could tell the character of those with whom the
   natives were acquainted. The first question put by the natives
   nearer the West Coast was, “Have you any gin?”

    (2287)


                                 PAIN

    You eat the heart of life like some great beast,
      You blacken the sweet sky--that God made blue,
    You are the death’s-head set amid the feast,
      The desert breath that drinks up every dew.

    And no man lives but quails before thee, Pain!
      And no man lives that learns to love your rod;
    The white lip smiles--but ever and again,
      God’s image cries your horror unto God.

    And yet--oh, terrible! men grant you this:
      You work a mystery. When you are done,
    Lo! common living turns to heavenly bliss;
      Lo! the mere light is as the noonday sun!

    --MARGARET STEBLE ANDERSON, _The Century Magazine_.

    (2288)


   =Pain, Cry of=--See BIRD NOTES.


                            PAIN IN ANIMALS

   In dealing with animals it is necessary to consider carefully
   what signs may be depended upon as proofs of their suffering.
   Certainly their struggles and cries are not always true
   indications. All wild animals struggle under restraint. With
   many, cries indicate fear rather than pain. A hare when shot
   rarely cries; when closely pursued by dogs it often does.
   Animals when trapped rarely cry until some one approaches the
   trap. Frogs will cry out loudly on the appearance of anything
   at all resembling a snake; when injured with stones or cut by
   the scythe in mowing they rarely do so. Every gamekeeper knows
   that it is a common thing for a rat or rabbit, when caught
   by the leg in one of the ordinary steel-traps, to gnaw off
   its limb and so escape, while other animals when kept short
   of food will readily eat their own tails. Another proof that
   animals are less sensitive to pain than man is their comparative
   freedom from shock after severe injuries. When a man meets with
   a severe injury of any kind, a train of symptoms follow which
   are collectively known by the name of shock. A striking pallor
   takes the place of the natural color, the skin becomes covered
   with a clammy moisture, the eye loses its natural luster, and
   the extremities become deadly cold, and while the ear may detect
   the fluttering action of the heart, the pulse at the wrist is
   often quite imperceptible. All these symptoms point to a great
   disturbance of the nervous system, whereas the lower animals
   often sustain the severest injuries without exhibiting any of
   the symptoms of shock.--W. COLLIER, _Nineteenth
   Century_.

    (2289)


                           PAIN, LEARNING BY

   The gipsies of Transylvania, according to a writer in
   _Blackwood’s Magazine_, teach young bears to dance by
   placing the animal on a sheet of heated iron, while the trainer
   plays on his fiddle a strongly accentuated piece of dance-music.
   The bear, lifting up its legs alternately to escape the heat,
   involuntarily observes the time marked by the violin. Later
   on the heated iron is supprest, when the animal has learned
   its lesson, and whenever the gipsy begins to play on the
   fiddle the young bear lifts its legs in regular time to the
   music.--_Public Opinion._

    (2290)


   =Pain Relieved=--See PATIENCE.


                           PAIN STRENGTHENS

   When the little girl told her music-teacher that it hurt her
   fingers to practise on the piano, the teacher answered: “I know
   it hurts them, but it strengthens them, too.” Then the child
   packed the philosophy of the ages into her reply: “Teacher,
   it seems that everything which strengthens hurts.”--F. F.
   SHANNON.

    (2291)


                          PAIN, THE ANGEL OF

   When Theodosius was put upon the rack he suffered very great
   torture at the first. Somebody asked him how he endured all that
   pain on the rack. He replied: “When I was first put upon the
   rack I suffered a great deal; but very soon a young man in white
   stood by my side, and with a soft and comfortable handkerchief
   he wiped the sweat from my brow, and my pains were relieved. It
   was a punishment for me to get from the rack, because when the
   pain was all gone the angel was gone.” (Text.)

    (2292)


                              PAINSTAKING

   In spite of his continual need of movement, his passionate love
   of sport in all its forms, and especially of motoring, his
   expansive, rather mad, but very attractive youthfulness, Alfonso
   XIII, even in his flying trips, never loses the occasion to
   improve his mind. He is very quick at seizing a point, possesses
   a remarkable power of assimilation, and, altho he does not read
   much, for he has no patience, he is remarkably well informed
   regarding the smallest details in matters that interest him. One
   day, for instance, he asked me, point-blank:

   “Do you know how many gendarmes there are in France?”

   I confess that I was greatly puzzled what to reply, for I have
   never cared much about statistics. I ventured to say, off-hand:
   “Ten thousand.”

   “Ten thousand! Come, M. Paoli, what are you thinking of? That’s
   the number we have in Spain. It’s more like twenty thousand.”

   This figure, as I afterward learned, was strictly accurate.

   As for business of State, I also noticed that the king devoted
   more time to it than his restless life would lead one to
   believe. Rising, winter and summer, at six o’clock, he stays
   indoors and works regularly during the early part of the
   morning, and often again at night. In this connection, one of
   his ministers said to me:

   “He never shows a sign of either weariness or boredom. The
   king’s ‘frivolity’ is a popular fallacy. On the contrary,
   he is terribly painstaking. Just like the queen mother, he
   insists upon clear and detailed explanations before he will
   sign the least document; and he knows quite well how to make
   his will felt. Besides, he is fond of work, and he can work
   anywhere--in a motor-car, in a boat, in a train, as well as in
   his study.”--XAVIER PAOLI, _McClure’s_.

    (2293)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Any one, says a writer in _The Atlantic Monthly_, can hold
   out a dumb-bell for a few seconds; but in a few more seconds the
   arm sags; it is only the trained athlete who can endure even to
   the minute’s end.

   For Hawthorne to hold the people of “The Scarlet Letter”
   steadily in focus from November to February, to say nothing of
   six years’ preliminary brooding, is surely more of an artistic
   feat than to write a short story between Tuesday and Friday.

   The three years and nine months of unremitting labor devoted to
   “Middlemarch” does not in itself afford any criterion of the
   value of the book; but given George Eliot’s brain power and
   artistic instinct to begin with, and then concentrate them for
   that period upon a single theme, and it is no wonder that the
   result is a masterpiece.

   “Jan van Eyck was never in a hurry,” says Charles Reade of the
   great Flemish painter, in “The Cloister and the Hearth,” and
   therefore the world will not forget him in a hurry. (Text.)

    (2294)


   =Painting the Living=--See MOTIVE, MERCENARY.


   =Palliatives=--See MUSIC AS AN ANESTHETIC.


                     PALLIATIVES VERSUS PREVENTION

The principle indicated in the extract will some day be adopted by
Christianity in its treatment of the moral life. Mere palliatives are
insufficient:

   The aim of reasonable people should be to keep themselves in
   health rather than to be always straying, as it were, upon
   the confines of disease and seeking assistance from drugs in
   order to return to conditions from which they should never
   have suffered themselves to depart. The various alkaline
   salts and solutions, for example, the advertisements of which
   meet us at every turn, and which are offered to the public as
   specifics, safely to be taken, without anything so superfluous
   as the advice of medical men, for all the various evils which
   are described by the advertisers as gout or heartburn, or
   as the consequences of “uric acid,” do unquestionably, in a
   certain proportion of cases, afford temporary relief from some
   discomfort or inconvenience. They do this notwithstanding
   persistence in the habit or in the indulgence, whatever it
   may be, the overeating, the want of exercise, the excessive
   consumption of alcohol or of tobacco, which is really underlying
   the whole trouble which the drugs are supposed to cure and
   which at the very best they only temporarily relieve, while
   they permit the continuance of conditions leading ultimately to
   degeneration of tissue and to premature death. (Text.)--_The
   Lancet._

    (2295)


                          PANIC THROUGH FEAR

The New York _Evening Post_ thus describes the condition of panic
on our ships at the beginning of the Spanish War:

   Almost any officer who served in the fleet before Santiago
   could relate not one, but a great many incidents that occurred
   where the men of our ships would have slaughtered each other if
   the good little angel that sits up aloft (and our exceedingly
   bad marksmanship at that time) had not protected us from the
   mistakes (incomprehensible to landsmen) which caused our
   ships to fire at each other, at colliers, dispatch-boats,
   torpedo-boats, and at nothing at all--and all this in the clear
   atmosphere of the tropical seas.

   Such was the effect of the long, nervous tension that thousands
   of shots were fired at pure fantoms of the imagination. The
   broadsides of powerful battleships repeatedly burst into a
   furious cannonade that was arrested only with the complete
   annihilation of the supposed enemy. For one of our ships to
   approach the fleet at night was to run a grave risk. The sea
   was alive with Spanish torpedo-boats. Signals, lights, etc.,
   were misunderstood or disregarded. The enemy might have obtained
   possession of them and displayed them for our confusion. There
   were many narrow escapes. Several of our vessels were struck
   by shells, but the luck that followed us throughout the war
   prevented a disaster. I could mention the names of officers who
   have never been able to comb their hair down flat since the
   particular night on which they came within an ace of sinking
   a friend--with whom they have never since ceased to exchange
   congratulatory drinks. (Text.)--New York _Evening Post_.

    (2296)


   =Panoply=--See ARMOR.


   =Paper, Invention of=--See ANTIQUITY.


   =Papers, The Opinions of=--See REPORTS TO ORDER.


   =Paralysis=--See SALVABILITY.


                                PARADOX

   Nature is full of paradoxes. The water which drowns us as a
   fluent stream can be walked upon as ice. The bullet which, when
   fired from a musket, carries death, will be harmless if ground
   to dust before being fired. The crystallized part of the oil
   of roses, so graceful in its fragrance--a solid at ordinary
   temperatures, tho readily volatile--is a compound substance,
   containing exactly the same elements and exactly the same
   proportions as the gas with which we light the streets. The
   tea which we daily drink with benefit and pleasure produces
   palpitation, nervous tremblings, and even paralysis if taken in
   excess; yet the peculiar organic agent called “thein,” to which
   tea owes its quality, may be taken by itself (as thein, not as
   tea) without any appreciable effect--VYRNWY MORGAN,
   “The Cambro-American Pulpit.”

    (2297)

       *       *       *       *       *

Joseph Hart, the hymnist, wrote “The Paradox,” as follows:

    How strange is the course that a Christian must steer!
      How perplexed is the path he must tread!
    The hope of his happiness rises from fear,
      And his life he receives from the dead.

    His fairest pretensions must wholly be waived,
      And his best resolutions be crossed;
    Nor can he expect to be perfectly saved.
      Till he finds himself utterly lost.

    When all this is done, and his heart is assured
      Of the total remission of sins;
    When his pardon is signed, and his peace is procured,
      From that moment his conflict begins.

    (2298)


                               PARASITES

Society has too many members who are willing to live on the labor of
others, like the shoveler duck described in this extract:

   One of the ducks has learned a convenient trick for getting his
   dinner. Some of the diving brotherhood who feed under water stir
   up a great deal that floats, and the shoveler, preferring to
   take his provision from the surface, follows his diving neighbor
   to the feeding-place, and while the feeders below stir up the
   inhabitants, he swims around on the surface and catches whatever
   floats.--OLIVE THORNE MILLER, “The Bird Our Brother.”

    (2299)


                              PARASITISM

   Some of the intruding insects that come from oak galls are not
   harmless. They are the ones called parasites. They live in the
   houses not for the sake of the protection or the food furnished
   by the house, but in order to eat the actual dwellers in the
   house. Often and often not a single real gall-insect comes out
   in the spring from many of the little houses, but only a little
   swarm, or sometimes just two or three, or even one, of these
   insect-devouring parasites that has eaten up the rightful owners
   of the house.--VERNON L. KELLOGG, “Insect Stories.”

    (2300)


                                PARDON

   In the Isle of Man is an old, gray, ruined tower in which was
   formerly hanged one of the best governors the island ever
   possest. He had been accused of treachery to the king during
   the time of the civil wars, and received sentence of death.
   Intercession was made for him, and a pardon was sent; but the
   pardon fell into the hands of his bitter enemy, who kept it
   locked up, and the governor was executed.

    (2301)


   =Pardon, Conditional=--See MERCY, LIMITATION OF.


                       PARDON FOR A CHILD’S SAKE

The following incident is related by Mrs. Pickett, widow of General
George E. Pickett, of the Confederate Army, of her first meeting with
President Lincoln after the war:

   I was in Richmond when my Soldier fought the awful battle of
   Five Forks, Richmond surrendered, and the surging sea of fire
   swept the city. The day after the fire, there was a sharp rap at
   the door. The servants had all run away. The city was full of
   Yankees, and my environment had not taught me to love them. With
   my baby on my arm, I opened the door, and looked up at a tall,
   gaunt, sad-faced man in ill-fitting clothes. He asked: “Is this
   George Pickett’s home?”

   With all the courage and dignity I could muster, I replied:
   “Yes, and I am his wife, and this is his baby.”

   “I am Abraham Lincoln.”

   “The President!” I gasped. I had never seen him, but I knew the
   intense love and reverence with which my Soldier always spoke of
   him. The stranger shook his head and replied:

   “No; Abraham Lincoln, George’s old friend.”

   The baby pushed away from me and reached out his hands to Mr.
   Lincoln, who took him in his arms. As he did so an expression of
   rapt, almost divine tenderness and love lighted up the sad face.
   It was a look that I have never seen on any other face. The baby
   opened his mouth wide and insisted upon giving his father’s
   friend a dewy infantile kiss. As Mr. Lincoln gave the little one
   back to me, he said:

   “Tell your father, the rascal, that I forgive him for the sake
   of your bright eyes.”

    (2302)


   =Pardon through Intercession=--See SACRIFICIAL MEDIATION.


   =Parentage=--See LIFE, SOURCE OF.


                           PARENTAL CAUTION

   On the plain of Troy are dotted many Turkish villages. Thousands
   of storks make their nests on the roofs of the cottages.
   When Dr. Schliemann was digging in the ruins of the hill of
   Hissarlik, and discovering the remains of cities, he had two
   comfortable nests made for storks on the roof of his hut. But
   none would take up their abode. The hill was too cold and stormy
   for the little storks and the parents instinctively knew it.

    (2303)


   =Parental Mal-influence=--See POLITENESS.


   =Parental Religion=--See RELIGION, FAMILY.


                          PARENTAL SACRIFICE

D. L. Moody told this story of missionary self-sacrifice:

   A good many years ago I was stopping in a house in the West,
   and saw there a bright boy of thirteen who didn’t bear the name
   of the family he was living with, and yet was treated like one
   of the family. In answer to my inquiries, the lady said, “He
   is the son of a missionary. His parents couldn’t educate their
   children in India, so they came back here. But they had learned
   the language of India, and they did not feel that it was right
   for them to stay in this country. Finally, the husband said,
   ‘You stay here, wife, and educate the children and I will go
   back.’ The mother said, ‘No; God has used me there with you--we
   will go back together.’ ‘But,’ the father said, ‘you can’t give
   up those children. You never have been separated from them
   since they were born. How can you leave them in this country
   and go back?’ She replied, bravely, ‘I can do it if Christ
   wants me to.’ They made it a matter of prayer and put notices
   in the papers that they were going to leave their children, and
   asked Christian people to take them and educate them. I saw the
   notice and wrote that I would take one child and bring it up for
   Christ’s sake. The mother came and stayed a week in our home and
   observed everything. She watched the order and discipline of the
   family, and after she was convinced that it was a safe place to
   leave her boy, she set the day for departing. My room adjoined
   hers, and when the time came to start, I heard her pray, ‘Lord
   Jesus, help me now. I need Thee. Help me to give up this dear
   boy without a tear, that I may leave him with a smile. Oh, God,
   give me strength.’ She was helped to leave with a bright smile
   on her face. She went to five homes in the same way and went
   back to India, leaving her five children. Some time afterward,”
   Mr. Moody continued, “I was in Hartford and found a young man
   busy in the good work of picking up the rough boys of the
   streets and bringing them to my meetings and trying to lead them
   to Christ. It pleased me very much and I asked who he was. He
   was studying in the theological seminary, and I found he was one
   of those five sons of that brave woman, and all of the five were
   expecting to return to India to carry on their father’s work.”

    (2304)


                       PARENTHOOD AMONG SAVAGES

   An Australian mother will coddle her baby with ape-like
   fondness, and hardly ever let it stray out of sight for the
   first four years; but as soon as the toddling little imp seems
   able to take care of itself, its debt of gratitude to its
   progenitors has to be paid by the worst kind of slavery. At the
   first sign of insubordination a half-grown boy is apt to be
   kicked out, if not killed, by his own father. (Text.)--FELIX
   OSWALD, _Good Health_.

    (2305)


   =Parentless=--See SYMPATHY, PRACTICAL.


   =Parents=--See EXAMPLE OF PARENTS.


                    PARENTS AS TEACHERS OF RELIGION

   The teaching and preaching by fathers and mothers in the
   seclusion of the home circle are doing much more to determine
   the fate of souls than the eloquent sermons and elaborate
   lessons in pulpit and Sunday-school. Parents are touching
   life at its beginnings, making impressions that can never be
   obliterated. The family is the natural and divinely appointed
   school of religion because it has the first opportunity. The
   smallest thing at the beginning of life affects all the future.
   A child but a year old slipt and fell on a wet floor, and tho
   that was seventy years ago, the man is lame yet. And the moral
   nature is as easily crippled as the body. The moral lameness
   we see in the old or middle-aged is often caused by some
   mistaught or neglected lesson in infancy.--_The Cumberland
   Presbyterian._

    (2306)


   =Parents, Example of=--See FAMILY RELIGION.


                          PARSIMONY IN GIVING

   On one occasion a new silver dollar found itself in the same
   plate with a penny with the head of an Indian upon it. And the
   goddess of Liberty looked down upon the Indian, and said: “You
   miserable, copper-faced, feather-trimmed heathen, what are you
   doing in this plate, in the same company with me?” And the
   copper coin, with the Indian’s face, responded: “I am found in a
   great many more missionary gatherings than you are!”

    (2307)


                              PARTIALITY

   Chief Justice Marshall, of the United States, was all his
   life an ardent votary of quoits. He was an active member
   of the Barbecue or Quoit Club for forty years, their main
   amusement being quoits and backgammon. Great respect was paid
   to the veteran lawyer in these contests. Once an old Scotch
   gentleman was called in to decide between him and a keen rival
   as to the winner, and after a most careful measurement that
   oracle gave his decision thus: “Maister Mairshall has it a
   leetle,” tho every bystander saw it was quite the other way.
   (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (2308)


   =Pass, Let it=--See EVIL, IGNORING.


   =Passengers to Heaven=--See OBLIGATIONS TO THE CHURCH.


                            PASSING OF LIFE

    And this is life--to-day we here abide,
    Perchance to-morrow we must step aside,
    We master not our own; no vain regret
    Can change the path for us which God has set.

    Then let our footsteps be toward the light,
    With loving words and deeds make each day bright.
    Let charity progress to wider plan,
    Lend gracious ear to creed of every man.

    --S. D. GARDNER.

    (2309)


                          PASSION, GROWTH OF

   An old man was once walking with a little boy. They came across
   four shrubs. The old man said to his youthful companion:

   “Pull up the least one.”

   He obeyed with ease.

   “Now the next.”

   He obeyed, but it did not come so easily.

   “And the third.”

   It took all his strength to move its roots, but he succeeded.

   “Now the fourth.”

   In vain the lad put forth all his strength. He only made the
   leaves tremble. He could not move the roots. They had gone
   strongly into the earth, and no effort could dislodge them.

   Then the wise old man said to the ardent youth:

   “This, my son, is just what happens with our passions. When they
   are young and weak one may by a little watchfulness over self
   and the help of a little self-denial easily tear them up, but
   if we let them cast their roots deep into our souls there is no
   human power can uproot them. For this reason, my child, watch
   well over the first movements of your soul and study by acts of
   virtue to keep your passions well in check.” (Text.)

    (2310)


   =Passport, Value of a=--See TOKEN, VALUE OF A.


   =Past and Present Compared=--See RELIGION DIFFUSED.


                           PASTOR, THE IDEAL

    Give me the pastor whose graces shall possess
    Of an ambassador the just address;
    A father’s tenderness, a shepherd’s care,
    A leader’s courage, which the cross can bear;
    A ruler’s awe, a watchman’s wakeful eye,
    A fisher’s patience, and a laborer’s toil;
    A guide’s dexterity to disembroil;
    A prophet’s inspiration from above;
    A teacher’s knowledge, and a Savior’s love.

    --BISHOP HARE.

    (2311)


   =Path, Narrow=--See PROMISES.


                        PATHOLOGICAL CONDITIONS

   A Viennese lady, who had suffered for a long time from
   cataleptic or lethargic attacks, was finally buried in one of
   her trances. The sexton, who fortunately happened to be a thief
   in this instance, had reopened the grave and was busy removing
   her clothes during the ensuing night, when a resurrection of the
   dead took place. Stricken with terror, he was running away, when
   the woman called him back, requesting to be taken to her doctor.

          *       *       *       *       *

   A little girl, mentioned by Tissot, shocked at her sister
   having helped herself to a coveted morsel, remained stiff
   and motionless for an hour, a spoon in her hand, and her arm
   outstretched toward the dish.

          *       *       *       *       *

   A soldier, quarreling with a companion, in a fit of passion
   seized a bottle to throw at him; cataleptic rigidity fixt him in
   this attitude, motionless, unconscious, his eyes full of anger
   and defiance.

          *       *       *       *       *

   In another case a magistrate on the bench, insulted in the
   middle of his summing up, remained as if petrified in an
   attitude of indignation and threat at his insulter.

          *       *       *       *       *

   Again, we read of priests being cataleptized at the altar in the
   attitude of elevating the sacrament.--A. DE WATTEVILLE,
   _Fortnightly Review_.

    (2312)


                       PATHS, KEEPING ONE’S OWN

   Some twenty years ago a United States naval officer conceived
   the idea that if vessels eastbound took one ocean path and
   vessels westbound another, collisions would be avoided.
   Steamship lines eagerly fell in with the suggestion, and
   the result is that ingoing and outgoing liners may follow
   well-defined lanes of traffic. Separate paths are laid out for
   vessels of high power. Slow vessels, freighters and the like,
   have their special steaming zones. Since that time no collision
   on the high seas between two liners has occurred.

If every man would be equally careful to keep in his own territory
moral collisions and many of life’s catastrophes would be avoided.

    (2313)


                               PATIENCE

Edward Collins Downing bids us to wait through earth’s night for the
coming day of God’s accomplishments:

    To those who sit and watch at night
      And look to God alone for strength,
      There will arise, I know, at length,
    A foregleam of eternal light.

    The morning does not hesitate;
      The glory of its hour is fixt,
      Tho sorrow has been strangely mixt
    In all our lives, there is no fate

    That can retard the coming day.
      Be patient. In His perfect time
      God’s purpose will unfold, sublime,
    And light and joy shall have their way.(Text.)

    (2314)

       *       *       *       *       *

Lady Henry Somerset has told how her attention was first called to the
work of relieving the sufferings of poor city children.

   “I was moved in that direction by the rare patience and
   imagination of one little boy. His example convinced me that
   patience was one of the qualities I needed most, and in seeking
   it I grew into that work. I was in a hospital on visiting day
   while the doctors were changing a plaster-cast which held the
   crippled boy’s limb. The operation was exceedingly painful, I
   was told. To my surprize the little sufferer neither stirred nor
   winced, but made a curious buzzing sound with his mouth. After
   the doctors left him, I said:

   “‘How could you possibly stand it?’

   “‘That’s nothin’,’ he answered; ‘why, I just made believe that a
   bee was stingin’ me. Bees don’t hurt very much, you know. And I
   kept buzzin’ because I was afraid I’d forget about its being a
   bee if I didn’t.’”

    (2315)

       *       *       *       *       *

   When the quality most needed in a prime minister, who
   should be fully master of the situation, was the subject of
   conversation in the presence of Mr. Pitt, one of the speakers
   said it was eloquence, another said it was knowledge, a third
   said it was toil. “No,” said Pitt, “it is patience.” And
   patience is undoubtedly a prime quality of mastery in any
   situation.--JAMES T. FIELDS.

    (2316)

   See WAIT AND SEE; WAITING.


   =Patriot, Acting the Part of a=--See PRETENSE.


                              PATRIOTISM

The spirit of Lincoln, who struck hard blows at the Southern cause but
always spoke charitably of the Southern people, is embodied in this
poem:

    The foe that strikes thee,
    For thy country’s sake
    Strike him with all thy might;
    But while thou strikest,
    Forget not still to love him. (Text.)

    --His Majesty the Emperor MUTSU HITO
    of Japan. Translated by ARTHUR LLOYD.

    (2317)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A Japanese mother had given her three sons to the war. The
   first was reported slain. She smiled and said, “It is well.
   I am happy.” The second lay dead upon the field. She smiled
   again and said, “I am still happy.” The third gave up his life
   and they said to her, “At last you weep!” “Yes,” she said,
   “but it is because I have no more sons to give to my beloved
   country!”--MARSHALL P. WILDER, “Smiling ’Round the
   World.”

    (2318)

   See FIDELITY; HOME WHERE THE HEART IS; SYMBOL, POWER OF A.


                       PATRIOTISM, DISINTERESTED

   A rather refreshing sight for this year of our Lord would be a
   repetition of the office seeking the man as in “Saul’s” case,
   where it was said, “They sought him (to make him king) but he
   could not be found.”

   It is said of Abraham Lincoln that, fully expecting, owing to
   the meager success of the Union armies up to that time, that he
   would fail of reelection as President, he resolutely set about
   putting the governmental departments in order for his successor.
   He took special pains that as little inconvenience as possible
   (and detriment to the country’s interests) should be experienced
   in the transfer of power. How differently he might have acted
   but for his distinguishing patriotism! Washington once said: “It
   is of little consequence that my closing days be embittered if
   only the liberties of my country be conserved.” (Text.)

    (2319)


   =Patriotism, Early=--See LOYALTY.


   =Patriotism, Emblem of=--See MEMORIALS OF PATRIOTISM.


                          PATRIOTISM, LACK OF

   A significant punishment was administered recently to a man
   in Hoboken, N. J., for an act of disrespect to the Stars and
   Stripes. He was returning from an entertainment in the early
   morning hours, when he noticed a large flag flying from a pole
   in a citizen’s yard. In a spirit of mischief he opened his
   pocket-knife and cut the halyards and the flag came fluttering
   to the ground. A policeman saw it fall and promptly arrested the
   man. When asked by the recorder before whom he was arraigned
   why he had done the mischief, he had nothing to say but that he
   objected to see the flag flying at that time in the morning.
   The recorder answered that it was right to have that flag
   flying at any time, and he would pass a sentence that would
   teach the offender a lesson of respect. He ordered him to climb
   the forty-foot pole and replace the flag, and instructed two
   policemen to see that it was done. The news of the sentence
   attracted a crowd and the man was jeered as he clumsily climbed
   the pole and put the flag back. It is a curious fact that the
   man who cut the flag down was an American, but it was flying in
   the yard of a Frenchman, and the arrest was made by an Irish
   policeman, and the recorder who pronounced sentence is said to
   be of English descent.

Every one has a contempt for a man who lowers the symbol of his
nation’s honor. But it is too often forgotten that dishonorable conduct
and unprincipled trickery do more to dishonor the nation to which a man
belongs than any insult to his flag.

    (2320)


   =Patriotism Scorned=--See MEMORIALS OF PATRIOTISM.


   =Patrons Cared for=--See DEPORTMENT.


                           PATTERN, PERFECT

We must not look for truth from men and women whose souls are out
of sympathy with truth. The trouble with us all as human beings is
that none of our natural virtues are wholly sound and perfect. There
is at least a little untruth in all our truth, a little jealousy
even in our best praise, a little pride even in our piety, a little
superciliousness in our forbearance. Jesus alone could properly claim
to be a type for all human character.

   In a bullet foundry the first anxiety does not concern the
   bullets themselves. Of course it is absolutely necessary that
   each one should be perfectly spherical in shape. The essential
   antecedent condition is a perfect mold. If the bullet-mold is
   deformed, every bullet will share its deformity. Therefore the
   first need is to make the mold right, and then every bullet will
   share its rectitude.

    (2321)


                          PATTERN, THE DIVINE

“Tapestry Weavers,” the poem by Dr. A. G. Chester, on page 535, has
been translated into Japanese and published in the leading magazine
of the country, which circulates over 50,000 copies, and the lines
have also been printed in its English form upon large cards, which are
distributed throughout the schools of Japan.

A returned missionary from China, who was recently introduced to Doctor
Chester, remarked: “I am delighted to make the acquaintance of the
author of ‘The Tapestry Weavers,’ a poem I have loved and admired and
used by way of illustration for many years.”

In connection with a fair lately held at the Waldorf-Astoria, New York
City, for the benefit of the Home for Crippled Children, a number of
copies of the poem, printed upon tinted paper and bearing the author’s
autograph, sold readily and realized a handsome sum.

                                   I

    Let us take to our hearts a lesson--no lesson can braver be--
    From the ways of the tapestry weavers on the other side of the sea.

    Above their heads the pattern hangs, they study it with care,
    The while their fingers deftly move, their eyes are fastened there.

    They tell this curious thing besides of the patient, plodding
      weaver;
    He works on the wrong side evermore, but works for the right side
      ever.

    It is only when the weaving stops, and the web is loosed and
      turned,
    That he sees his real handiwork, that his marvelous skill is
      learned.

    Ah, the sight of its delicate beauty, how it pays him for all his
      cost!
    No rarer, daintier work than his was ever done by the frost.

    Then the master bringeth him golden hire, and giveth him praise as
      well,
    And how happy the heart of the weaver is, no tongue but his own can
      tell.

                                  II

    The years of man are the looms of God, let down from the place of
      the sun,
    Wherein we are weaving ever, till the mystic web is done.

    Weaving blindly, but weaving surely, each for himself his fate--
    We may not see how the right side looks, we can only weave and
      wait.

    But, looking above for the pattern, no weaver hath need to fear,
    Only let him look clear into heaven--the Perfect Pattern is there.

    If he keeps the face of the Savior forever and always in sight
    His toil shall be sweeter than honey, his weaving is sure to be
      right.

    And when the work is ended, and the web is turned and shown,
    He shall hear the voice of the Master; it shall say unto him, “Well
      done!”

    And the white-winged angel of heaven, to bear him thence shall come
      down;
    And God shall give him gold for his hire--not coin but a glowing
      crown.
    (Text.)

    (2322)


                           PAYMENT OF DEBTS

   In a suit lately tried in a Maryland court, the plaintiff
   testified that his financial position had always been a good
   one. The opposing counsel took him in hand for cross-examination
   and undertook to break down his testimony upon this point.

   “Have you ever been bankrupt?” asked the counsel. “I have not.”
   “Now, be careful,” admonished the lawyer, with raised finger.
   “Did you ever stop payment?” “Yes.” “Ah, I thought we should
   get at the truth,” observed counsel, with an unpleasant smile.
   “When did this suspension of payment occur?” “When I had paid
   all I owed,” was the naive reply of the plaintiff.--_Success
   Magazine._

    (2323)


                                 PEACE

The following outlook toward universal peace was written by George
Frederick Knowles:

    When navies are forgotten
      And fleets are useless things,
    When the dove shall warm her bosom
      Beneath the eagle’s wings;

    When memory of battles
      At last is strange and old,
    When nations have one banner
      And creeds have found one fold;

    When the Hand that sprinkles midnight
      With its powdered drifts of suns
    Has hushed this tiny tumult
      Of sects and swords and guns;

    Then hate’s last note of discord
      In all God’s worlds shall cease,
    In the conquest which is service,
      In the victory which is peace.

    (2324)

       *       *       *       *       *

   “The inauguration of a monument of Christ, the Redeemer, on the
   Cordillera of the Andes,” says Carolina Huidobro, in _The
   Christian Herald_ (New York), “has a grand significance, at
   once political and social. The colossal statue upon a pinnacle
   14,000 feet above the sea, surrounded by peaks of perpetual
   snow, dominating as it does the two countries which stretch out
   on either side of the mountain range, is a tangible witness
   of international brotherhood.... Chile and Argentina have not
   only created a symbol; they have inculcated into the minds of
   men for all ages an idea of greater significance than any other
   in our contemporary age, by erecting that colossal monument
   to the Christ, with the inscription on its granite pedestal:
   ‘Sooner shall these mountains crumble to dust than Argentines
   and Chileans break the peace which, at the feet of Christ, the
   Redeemer, they have sworn to maintain.’ On the opposite side
   of the base are the words of the angels’ song over Bethlehem:
   ‘Peace on earth, good-will to all men.’ The statue cost about
   $100,000, and was paid for by popular subscription, the working
   classes contributing liberally.” (Text.)

    (2325)

   See CHRISTMAS; MILITARISM.


                              PEACE PACT

   When William Penn made his treaty with the Indians under the
   spreading branches of an elm-tree on the banks of the Delaware,
   it was not for lands, but for peace and friendship. “We meet,”
   said Penn, “in the broad pathway of good faith and good will;
   no advantage shall be taken on either side, but all shall be
   openness and love. I will not call you children, for parents
   sometimes chide their children too severely; nor brothers only,
   for brothers differ. The friendship between me and you I will
   not compare to a chain, for that the rains might rust, or the
   falling tree might break. We are the same as if one man’s body
   were to be divided into two parts; we are all one flesh and
   blood.” The Indians replied: “We will live in love with William
   Penn and his children as long as the sun and moon shall endure.”

Such a peace pact does God make with men; and such a pact ought man and
man, and nation and nation to make with each other.

    (2326)


   =Peace Predicted=--See AGE, THE NEW.


                     PEACEFUL INSTINCT OF SIMIANS

   The acquisitive energy of a monkey-swarm must be witnessed to be
   credited. In the banana-gardens of the _tierra caliente_ a
   Mexican capuchin monkey will exhaust his business opportunities
   with the dispatch of a Cincinnati bank cashier; but, in his
   attempt to reach the Canadian side of the hedge with a good
   armful of plunder, so often falls a victim to the pursuing
   dogs that monkey-trappers frequently rent an orchard for the
   special purpose of capturing the retreating marauders. In
   spite of their mischievous petulance, nearly all the Old World
   species of our four-handed kinsmen are emotionally sympathetic
   and ever ready to rescue their wounded friends at the risk of
   their own lives. At the cry of a captured baby baboon the whole
   tribe of passionate four-fisters will rush in regardless of
   consequences, and a similar tendency of cooperation may have
   given our hairy forefathers a superior chance of survival and
   secured their victory in their struggle for existence against
   their feline rivals. Their list of original sins may have
   included gluttony, covetousness and violence of temper, but
   hardly a penchant for wanton bloodshed. With the exception of
   the fox-headed lemurs and the ultra-stupid marmosets, nearly
   all our simian relatives evince symptoms of a character-trait
   which might be defined as an instinctive aversion to cruelty.
   Menagerie monkeys indulge their love of gymnastics by frequent
   scuffles; but the sight of a bona fide fight awakens a chorus of
   shrieks expressing a general protest rather than an emotion of
   fear or even partizan interest, for in an open arena the stouter
   members of the obstreperous community are sure to rush in and
   part the combatants.--FELIX OSWALD, _Popular Science
   Monthly_.

    (2327)


                            PEACEMAKER, THE

    Just in the shade of the arena’s gate,
      They trooped and paused; and to the ranks of eyes
    That questioned ere they drove them on to fate,
      Steel-swift, steel-steady, did their answers rise--
    “I fight to break the tyranny I hate!”
      “I come to tear the veil from ancient lies!”
      “I seize the odds! Let others share the prize!”
    “I fail, that some may conquer, soon or late!”
    But one who bore, within that radiant line,
      A look as cool as joy, as firm as pain,
      And touched his sword, as some rapt village swain
    Touches the cup that holds his wedding wine,
    Spoke not, until they urged: “What aim is thine?”
      “I fight, that none may ever fight again!”

    --G. M. HORT, London _Nation_.

    (2328)


   =Pearl, The Unexpected=--See DISCOVERY, FORTUNATE.


   =Pearls=--See APPRECIATION.


   =Peccability of Men=--See VINCIBLENESS.


   =Pedagog Rebuked=--See UNNATURAL EDUCATION.


                               PEDIGREE

   Shells keeping their form and delicate color and delicate
   wings of insects are preserved in stone, embedded there ages
   ago, “Trees waved, butterflies flitted on brilliant wings and
   hosts of creatures basked in the sunlight long before human
   foot trod the earth,” says Edith Carrington in “Ages Ago.”
   Some pique themselves in being able to trace descent through
   a few centuries. But there is a humble creature haunting our
   back-yards counting his pedigree by millions of years. The
   common wood-louse, tho shy and modest, might boast if he
   liked--the scion of an ancient and noble family, the trilobites,
   once the monarchs of the world and the most numerous and highly
   organized creatures in it. (Text.)

    (2329)


   =Penalty from Mistaken Ideas=--See INDIVIDUALISM, EXCESSIVE.


                           PENTECOST, MODERN

The Hawaiian Islands are among the greatest of the marvels of
missionary success.

   During the five years ending June, 1841, 7,557 persons were
   received into the Church at Hilo, constituting three-fourths
   of the whole adult population of the parish. When Titus Coan
   left Hilo, in 1870, he had himself received and baptized 11,960
   persons.--PIERSON, “The Miracles of Missions.”

    (2330)


   =Penuriousness=--See SIGHT, IMPERFECT.


   =People, Contact With=--See SPEECH, COMMON.


   =Perfection=--See COMPLIMENT.


   =Peril and Reward, Ignoring=--See PRIDE IN ONE’S TASK.


                            PERISHABLENESS

   At the World’s Fair at St. Louis, Mo., the heroic statue of
   Joliet was so fine a work of art that a movement was set on
   foot to preserve it after the close of the fair. Many admirers
   of it subscribed for the expense, and it was removed to the
   entrance of O’Fallon Park. The figure was twenty-five feet high
   and fifteen feet long. The work of removal was difficult and
   cost nearly $2,000, but it was safely accomplished and it made
   an imposing addition to the beauties of the park. But it was
   made only of staff, and tho it was believed it would last for
   ten years, it was not supposed that it was permanent. Not long
   after, however, while hundreds of people stood admiring it in
   its new position, there was a sudden break in the image. A cloud
   of white dust arose, and when it cleared away the big statue
   had disappeared. A heap of white dust was all there was to show
   where it had been. It had absolutely crumbled to powder. All
   the work that had been expended on its formation and removal
   was lost in a moment. So it is with all human work, however
   beautiful and imposing. In God and His work alone is permanence.
   (Text.)

    (2331)


   =Permanence of the Spirit=--See RECORD, LIVING.


                              PERMANENCY

   “The first lizard possest the snout of a dolphin, the head of
   a lizard, the teeth and jaws of a crocodile, the backbone of a
   fish, paddles like those of a whale and the trunk and tail of a
   quadruped--a very monarch of the early seas. Kill or be killed
   must have been the rule of his life,” says the great French
   novelist Currie. But it would seem the coat of mail worn by the
   tortoises and turtles was a better protection than the powerful
   claws and jaws of the fish-lizard, which was short-lived. The
   former are alive and flourishing to this day--the latter have
   altogether vanished. On the grave of John Keats are the words,
   “Here lies one whose name was writ in water.” (Text.)

    (2332)


   =Permanent Impressions=--See TEACHER’S FUNCTION, THE.


                            PERMANENT, THE

Rev. Robert P. Wilder, missionary to India, gives the following account
of a vivid dream he had while working in the mission field:

   “I thought the Master came to me and said, ‘Take heed how ye
   build.’ I asked Him to show me the pattern. The veil was removed
   and I saw the pattern; but I saw that very much of my work was
   not in line with the pattern. Presently He took me into a little
   room and showed me a very small column of silver, and He said,
   ‘That will abide the test. When the fire comes, that will not be
   destroyed.’ I asked Him what it represented, and He said, ‘That
   represents the little gifts to the needy ones.’ ‘Inasmuch as you
   have done it to one of these little ones you have done it to
   me, and inasmuch as the left hand did not know what the right
   hand gave, it is precious.’ Then He showed me another little
   column of gold, and He said, ‘That also will abide the test.
   That represents the hours of prayer alone with your Master.’ At
   last we passed into a great room, and I pointed out to Him the
   elaborate carving in the woodwork. I had spent many months on
   it, but the Master said, ‘Yes, it is well done, but it is wood,
   and when the fire strikes, the wood, hay and stubble will go.’”
   (Text.)

    (2333)


                        PERSECUTION AND PRAYER

   When holding services in a little chapel on the edge of Manila,
   we had a young convert named Candido, about nineteen or twenty
   years old, in charge. We had to meet out under the trees, and
   there was an old man who lived close by where we were holding
   the services--an old gambler, sixty years old, named Marcelina.
   Of all the vile brutes I ever saw, that old Marcelina was the
   worst. He would go at night, and while we were holding services
   he would throw stones and brickbats. If there ever was a devil
   incarnate, he was one. We had patience with him for a long time.
   One day Candido came into my office and sat down in a chair and
   was looking greatly discouraged. Finally he said: “What shall
   we do with that old Marcelina? He came in last night and hit
   one of the little girls on the head with a stone, and she is
   seriously injured.” I replied, “I don’t know what you ought to
   do. I believe if Jesus were on earth, He would pray for that
   old man.” “That is a doctrine which you don’t find until you
   take the gospel,” he answered. “With us, it is an eye for an
   eye and a tooth for a tooth, and stab the other fellow in the
   back.” It cheered my heart to hear that little fellow say that.
   He went out and gathered twelve or thirteen young men in a room
   as a praying-band, and for two long months they met every single
   night to pray for the conversion of that old man. Marcelina,
   hearing of it, came up and asked, “What are you doing?” “We are
   praying for you, that God will give you love in your heart.” He
   rushed out, raving and swearing, and the next time they held a
   service, he threw clubs and stones. Still the boys did not give
   up. After that Marcelina could not sleep; and one night he got
   up when everybody else was asleep and stole like a sentry to
   where Candido lived and called him out. He said, “Candido, I
   wish you would tell me what it is that you have which I haven’t
   got; how can you treat me so kindly, when I am a brute to you?”
   They walked up under the palm-trees and bananas at the other
   side of the house, and that nineteen-year-old boy and the proud
   old gambler knelt down side by side to pray. I do not explain
   these things, but I know what happened that night. Marcelina
   knelt down and God took away that stony heart which he had had
   for fifty years and gave him as new and tender a heart as a
   young child ever had. Later there stood up thirty-seven people
   for baptism, and when I looked at Marcelina my heart seemed
   to come into my throat. I knew the struggles that he had gone
   through, and after I had baptized him, he said: “I beg your
   pardon; I thought that I was doing good when I threw stones; I
   did not know any better.” Before he sat down I put my hand on
   his shoulder and said: “Wait, one word more; what must we do
   to win a fellow man for Jesus?” He looked around and sat down,
   crying like a little child, and we all wept with him; we could
   not help it. In a moment he arose and gave this testimony, with
   the tears streaming down his cheeks and his voice shaking:
   “Pastor, we can not win men by throwing stones at them; we
   can not win them by treating them as I have been treating
   you; we must love them to Jesus.” That is what we must do in
   Latin-America for those people who do not love Jesus; we must
   step over the barrier and help them and “love them to Jesus.”
   Do they need us?--J. MCLAUGHLIN, “Student Volunteer
   Movement,” 1906.

    (2334)


                        PERSECUTION, RELIGIOUS

   It was during the latter half of the eighteenth century in
   Europe that some statesmen commenced the much-needed work of
   reform. Conspicuous among them was Joseph II of had the right
   to regulate the religion of his subjects. In Bohemia a certain
   sect was formed, made up of thrifty, honest and hard-working
   peasants, who believed in God and named themselves deists. This
   offended the Emperor and he gave instructions to have them
   brought to justice; those who determined to stand by their
   belief were to receive twenty-five lashes “not because they are
   deists,” said Joseph, “but because they declare themselves to be
   something which they do not comprehend.” The lash did not prove
   effective, so he deported them.

    (2335)


                             PERSEVERANCE

The gentlest and least noticed efforts if repeated persistently enough
will have their effect in due time. This is a lesson to be learned by
those who are trying forward movements of reform:

   In a gun-factory a great bar of steel, weighing five hundred
   pounds, and eight feet in length, was suspended vertically by a
   very delicate chain. Near by a common bottle-cork was suspended
   by a silk thread. The purpose was to show that the cork could
   set the steel bar in motion. It seemed impossible. The cork was
   swung gently against the steel bar, and the steel bar remained
   motionless. But it was done again and again and again for ten
   minutes, and lo! at the end of that time the bar gave evidence
   of feeling uncomfortable; a sort of nervous chill ran over it.
   Ten minutes later, and the chill was followed by vibrations.
   At the end of half an hour the great bar was swinging like the
   pendulum of a clock. (Text.)

    (2336)

       *       *       *       *       *

   It is not clear that Paganini owed much to any one but
   himself--his indomitable perseverance and his incessant study.
   His method is to be noted. For ten or twelve hours he would
   try passages over and over again in different ways with such
   absorption and intensity that at nightfall he would sink into
   utter prostration through excessive exhaustion and fatigue. Tho
   delicate, like Mendelssohn, he ate at times ravenously and slept
   soundly. When about ten he wrote twenty-four fugues, and soon
   afterward composed some violin music, of such difficulty that he
   was unable at first to play it, until incessant practise gave
   him the mastery.--H. R. HAWEIS, “My Musical Memories.”

    (2337)

       *       *       *       *       *

   I once thought I would like to test the perseverance of a large
   moth in performing its first upward journey; and as it was
   one from a chrysalis to be found in nature at the foot of a
   tree that attains some considerable height, I was, of course,
   prepared to exercise a little patience myself.

   As soon as the moth had emerged, I placed it at the bottom of
   a window curtain that hung about eight feet high to the floor.
   In less than half a minute it had reached the top and was
   struggling hard to get still higher. I took it down and again
   placed it at the bottom. Up it went as fast as before, and this
   was repeated nine times with exactly the same result.--W.
   FURNEAUX, “Butterflies and Moths.”

    (2338)

       *       *       *       *       *

   “Years of fruitless and apparently hopeless toil had almost
   determined the directors of the London Missionary Society to
   abandon altogether the work at Tahiti. Dr. Haweis, chaplain to
   the Countess of Huntingdon, one of the founders of the society,
   and the father and liberal supporter of the South Sea Mission,
   earnestly opposed such abandonment of the field, and backed
   his arguments by a further donation of a thousand dollars. The
   Rev. Matthew Wilks, the pastor of John Williams, declared that
   he would sell the clothes from his back rather than give up
   the mission, and proposed, instead, a season of special prayer
   for the divine blessing. Such a season was observed; letters
   of encouragement were written to the missionaries, and--mark
   it!--while the vessel was on her way to carry these letters to
   Tahiti, another ship passed her in mid-ocean, which conveyed
   to Great Britain, October, 1813, the news that idolatry was
   entirely overthrown on the island, and bore to London the
   rejected idols of the people.” (Text.)--PIERSON, “The
   Miracles of Missions.”

    (2339)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A young girl sat singing at the piano. “Sing it again,” said the
   singing teacher, and the tired girl sang it again and again and
   again. “But you do not sing it properly, and I question if you
   will ever make a great singer.” But the little girl tried hard
   and practised the next day and the next; the next week and the
   next; the next year and the next. One day she stood before 5,000
   men and women, and she sang till she seemed to take them out of
   themselves and to carry them up in the clouds of enchantment,
   over seas of melody, into an ecstasy of delight, until the
   people wept from the excess of their emotions. That girl was
   Lillian Nordica.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (2340)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A pious woman, when it was decided to close the prayer-meeting
   in a certain village, declared it should not be, for she would
   be there if no one else was. True to her word, when, the
   next morning, some one asked her jestingly, “Did you have a
   prayer-meeting last night?” “Ah, that we did!” she replied.
   “How many were present?” “Four,” she said. “Why, I heard you
   were there all alone.” “No, I was the only one visible; but the
   Father was there, and the Son was there, and the Holy Spirit was
   there, and we were all agreed in prayer.” Before long others
   took shame to themselves at the earnest perseverance of the poor
   woman, the prayer-meeting was revived and the church prospered.
   (Text.)

    (2341)

   See CRIMINALS, TRACING; PERSISTENCE.


   =Perseverance in Saving=--See PERSISTENCE IN DOING GOOD.


   =Perseverance, Unexampled=--See AERIAL ACHIEVEMENT.


                    PERSIA, THE MOSLEM SITUATION IN

   Perhaps I can not illustrate the degraded condition of the
   people in Persia better than by referring to the condition of
   women, because the key to the condition of the entire people
   is the condition occupied by their women. I will illustrate
   it by describing the manner of cultivating rice in northern
   Persia, in that portion bordering on the Caspian Sea. Among
   the people there, the planter as a rule marries as many women
   as he needs for the cultivation of his rice. They prepare the
   fields and sow broadcast in a seed-plot. These fields are not
   very large usually. The women further prepare it for cultivation
   by flooding the fields with water and then by plowing and
   cross-plowing under the water, standing in the great pools
   knee-deep or more. When the rice has grown to the height of
   six inches or more, the women go out in the early dawn and
   often they work with their babes strapt on their backs. It is
   necessary for them to transplant the little blades that have
   come up in the seed-plot; so they pull the rice plants up by the
   handful and transplant them, a few plants at a time, working
   steadily all day long until the evening twilight deepens and it
   is too dark to work any more, when they take refuge on a little
   elevation that may or may not be protected by a booth. There
   they remain during the night and are ready to start work again
   at the dawn. This they do, day after day. And when the harvest
   has come, and the crops have been gathered and safely placed in
   the storehouses, these women are probably divorced and turned
   out to live lives of misery and shame and degradation, until
   they may be so fortunate, as they would consider it, as to
   become the wives of other planters.

   I will give you another illustration of their condition.
   Not long ago I was sitting in my study when a department
   representative came to me and said that, lying out in the open,
   behind the Legation, was a poor old sick woman; and he thought
   perhaps I might be able to do something for her, as she needed
   attention very badly. I went and investigated the case and found
   a poor, decrepit old woman. I say old woman, for tho she was
   only about thirty-five years of age, at thirty-five in Persia
   they become broken down and decrepit. I investigated her case,
   and my investigation revealed this story. She had been the
   wife of a certain man and had gradually been getting blind.
   She had also fallen and broken her hip-joint, and, being no
   longer able to do his work, he had carried her out in the open
   desert and left her to die there. We took her in our hospital,
   where our doctor cared for her; and when they washed her in
   order to dress her wounds, they found that she had maggoted
   bed-sores on her body. We did everything we could for her, and
   God in His mercy relieved her of her physical sufferings. It
   was His mercy that placed her in our hands for the last few
   days of her life, in order that she might hear the story of the
   love of Christ.--LEWIS F. ESSELST, “Student Volunteer
   Movement,” 1906.

    (2342)


                              PERSISTENCE

   If the wind is in the east with a blue hazy atmosphere it
   seems to affect the fish in some unaccountable way, and while
   it lasts a rise can rarely be got out of them. I have noticed
   this hundreds of times, often when the water was in splendid
   fishing order, and the river full of new run fish, but whatever
   quarter the wind blows from there is always a chance while the
   fly is in the water, and to insure success the angler must
   make up his mind to have many blank days. He must never tire
   of throwing his fly, and never be put out by failure.--H.
   CHOLMONDELEY-PENNELL, “Fishing.”

    (2343)

       *       *       *       *       *

Mutsuhito, Emperor of Japan, is the author of the following quatrain:

    Amatari ni
      Kubomishi noki no
    Ishi mite mo
      Kataki waza tote
      Omoi sute me ya?

    See, how the tiny rain-drops from the eaves
    Hollow the stones beneath, with constant drip,
    Then why should we abandon well-formed plans
    Simply, forsooth, because we find them hard?

    (2344)

       *       *       *       *       *

It is the men who stick to it that secure the sweets of fortune.

   “I never was in New Hampshire but once,” said Mr. Lincoln,
   “and that was in the fall of the year--a cold, rough day, and
   a high wind was blowing. Just outside the city I noticed a
   big bull-thistle, and on this thistle was a bumblebee trying
   to extract honey from the blossom. The wind blew the thistle
   every which way, but the bumblebee stuck. I have come to the
   conclusion that persistency is characteristic of everything
   in New Hampshire, whether men or bumblebees.” (Text.)--_The
   Youth’s Companion._

    (2345)

   See RESOLUTENESS.


                       PERSISTENCE IN DOING GOOD

   Some of the Christians in Uganda are very faithful in pleading
   with others to give up their sins. One man, named Matayo, was
   giving way to drink. His Christian friends reminded him of his
   wound in the war. “You have a big wound in your soul, caused
   by drunkenness. Give up drink, or assuredly the wound will get
   worse and kill you eternally.” Matayo replied: “Why can’t you
   leave me alone?” Mika Sematimba answered, “When you were shot,
   did we not pick you up and carry you home? Did you then think
   we hated you? You are shot now, and we want to carry you home.
   Do you remember, when we were carrying you, how you said, ‘Let
   me walk; your carrying makes the wound hurt me?’ We didn’t let
   you walk. We knew you could not walk, but that you would faint
   on the road; and now we know you can not keep sober, and we want
   to help you. You say, ‘Leave me alone,’ but we won’t leave you
   alone. We know you will get worse if we do.”

    (2346)


                      PERSISTENCE IN MISSIONARIES

   Several attempts were made to open missionary work in Lua Niua,
   which was inhabited by a Polynesian race, speaking a language
   similar to that spoken by the Tongans and Samoans; but the
   heathen priests prevented it. Finally the Rev. J. F. Goldy,
   chairman of the Solomon Islands District, took with him a
   Christian Tongan teacher named Semisi Nau and a Christian Samoan
   named Pologa.

   The people, incited by the heathen priests, refused them
   permission to land and Mr. Goldy was about to return, when these
   two brave men positively refused to leave, saying, “If the
   people will not allow us to come ashore we will live in the boat
   and preach from the water; but these people _must_ hear of
   God’s love for them.”

   For three months they lived there, anchoring close to the beach.
   They were abused and harried by the people on the land and were
   unable to go ashore. There is no fresh water on this island,
   and their only drink is coconut milk. Day after day these two
   faithful men suffered from thirst, but God touched the heart of
   a native who swam out to their boat under cover of night, and
   brought them coconuts.

   Finally, a friendly chief at the other end of the lagoon invited
   them to come ashore and he and his people listened willingly and
   eagerly to the story of the gospel. A church has been built and
   the gospel has captured that end of the land. (Text.)

    (2347)


                           PERSISTENCE PAYS

   “I [John Wesley] remember to have heard my father ask my mother,
   ‘How could you have the patience to tell that blockhead the same
   thing twenty times over?’ She answered, ‘Why, if I had told him
   but nineteen times, I should have lost all my labor.’”--W.
   H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (2348)


                         PERSISTENCY REWARDED

   Eighty-eight letters to Andrew Carnegie, asking him to buy an
   organ for the Cote Brilliante Presbyterian Church of St. Louis,
   written in the last eight months, brought a check at last for
   $1,125 from the philanthropist.

   The check was accompanied only by a printed receipt form, and
   the church-members, while jubilant over getting the price of
   the organ, are wondering whether Mr. Carnegie really wanted
   to give the money, or did so to put an end to the series of
   letters. The letters were first sent at intervals of two weeks
   by different officials and members of the church, the intervals
   decreasing to one day, as the appeals for aid brought no reply.

    (2349)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A San Francisco lad, Cleve T. Shaffer, of the Potrero district,
   has perfected a soaring machine that he is now manufacturing
   for the market. He has the first airship factory in the West
   and is advertising for business. The Shaffer glider is marketed
   as a pleasure device. The pastime of scudding over fields
   at lightning speed is recommended as entirely safe and most
   exhilarating. Shaffer is twenty years old.

   While building his gliders for the trade Shaffer, in a shop
   established in the rear of his home, is fitting an enlarged
   glider with a power motor which he declares will make of it a
   biplane-aeroplane superior to those of the Wrights, Bleriot,
   Curtiss, Latham, Paulhan and the other aviators already famous.

   Shaffer is secretary of the Pacific Aero Club, the lively
   little organization of air-travel zealots which has sprung from
   the widespread interest in the new field of experimentation
   in San Francisco. The story of Shaffer’s efforts to solve the
   aviation problem is inspiring. Tho a mere boy, he is a “pioneer”
   in aerial experimentation. Without funds and without any
   suggestion, support or encouragement from older persons, Shaffer
   as a boy of fifteen years, at a time when aviation was a subject
   engaging the attention of only a handful of men in the entire
   world, began persistent and systematic experiments. The lad
   became the laughing-stock of his home district in the Potrero
   hills. He was looked upon as a freak, a child with something
   wrong in his make-up--because of his unquenchable mania for
   air-travel experiments.--_Sunset Magazine._

    (2350)


   =Persistent Effort=--See DIFFICULTIES, OVERCOMING.


   =Personal Application=--See ODD ONE, THE.


                    PERSONAL ELEMENT IN LITERATURE

   As no glass is colorless, but tinges more or less deeply the
   reflections from its surface, so no author can interpret human
   life without unconsciously giving to it the native hue of his
   own soul. It is this intensely personal element that constitutes
   style.--WILLIAM J. LONG, “English Literature.”

    (2351)


                         PERSONAL ELEMENT, THE

   A great violinist being announced to play on his $5,000
   instrument, the building was taxed to its utmost capacity to
   hold the eager throng. As he began to play they cheered his
   efforts and listened as if spellbound while he drew forth the
   rich strains of melody. Suddenly the character of the music
   changed and it was apparent to the people that something was
   wrong with the violin. The artist frowned, raised it high in air
   and in a tragic manner brought it down against a stand with such
   force that the instrument was shivered and flew in a thousand
   pieces.

   The people were horrified that the man should, in a moment of
   ill temper, thus destroy a $5,000 instrument. As the manager
   gathered up the fragments, the musician exclaimed, “Friends,
   this instrument was a $2 violin I purchased on my way here and
   played on that you might know that it is not the price of the
   instrument which determines the value of the music. That depends
   on the player’s touch. I will now play on my $5,000 violin.”

So everywhere it is “the man behind the gun” that counts in the final
results. (Text.)

    (2352)


                          PERSONAL EVANGELISM

President Woodrow Wilson, of Princeton, gives this incident of Dwight
L. Moody:

   Whenever I came into contact with Mr. Moody I got the impression
   that he was coming separately into contact with one person at
   a time. I remember that I was once in a very plebeian place; I
   was in a barbershop, lying in a chair, and I was aware that a
   personality had entered the room. A man came quietly in upon
   the same errand that I had come in on and sat in the chair next
   to me. Every word that he uttered, tho it was not in the least
   didactic, showed a personal and vital interest in the man who
   was serving him, and before I got through with what was being
   done to me I was aware that I had attended an evangelistic
   service, because Mr. Moody was in the next chair. I purposely
   lingered in the room after he left and noted the singular effect
   his visit had upon the barbers in that shop. They talked in
   undertones. They did not know his name. They did not know who
   had been there, but they knew that something had elevated their
   thought. And I felt that I left that place as I should have
   left a place of worship. Mr. Moody always sought and found the
   individual. (Text.)

    (2353)


                          PERSONAL INFLUENCE

   “The Catch-my-pal Movement” is attracting great public attention
   in the northern or Protestant section of Ireland. The nature of
   the movement will scarcely be suspected from the designation
   which has attached to it in popular speech; it is really an
   organization for the reclamation of drunkards. The originator,
   who is a Presbyterian layman living at Armagh--Patterson by
   name--had no intention of launching a general reform work; he
   stumbled into his present great service in a spontaneous attempt
   to help a poor fellow whom he found dead drunk at the foot
   of an Armagh lamp-post one day last July. By dint of genuine
   Christian sympathy and much hard work, Mr. Patterson succeeded
   in sobering the man up and persuading him to quit the drink.
   Then he sent the fellow to get a drunken “pal” and together they
   saved him. The three then went to work for a fourth. By the
   time Mr. Patterson had reformed six of the tipplers, he found
   to his surprize that he had actually started a “movement.” It
   was organized later under the dignified name of “The Protestant
   Total Abstinence Union,” but the public has not been able to
   remember that title. The main idea of using drunkards to save
   drunkards has been so perfectly exprest in the phrase “Catch my
   pal” that only that name is known to the “man in the street.”

    (2354)


   =Personal Influence Pervading the World=--SEE FAITH, A CHILD’S.


                          PERSONAL PREACHING

   Rev. Dr. Samuel M. Zwemer, of Arabia, says that forty years
   ago Dr. Talbot Chambers preached a missionary sermon in one of
   the New York churches, on a rainy Sabbath, when there was only
   one man in the audience. He made an appeal for the payment of
   the deficit of the Dutch Reformed Board. That deficit amounted
   to $55,000, and $11,000 were needed immediately to meet the
   crisis. Before Dr. Chambers went to bed that night there was
   a ring at the door, and Mr. Warren Ackerman announced himself
   as the man who had heard the sermon that morning. He drew out
   his check-book and wrote his check for $11,000. Early in the
   morning there was a ring at the door, and there stood Mr.
   Ackerman asking for a return of the check which he had given the
   previous night. “Now,” Dr. Chambers thought, “he is coming back
   because he feels he has given too much, and is giving one-half
   of the total amount needed.” But when the check was filled in
   the amount was $55,000, the largest single gift ever received
   by the Reformed Board. In such fashion does a sense of personal
   responsibility enable men to do exceeding abundantly above all
   that they are able to ask or think for the kingdom of God.

    (2355)


   =Personal Touch in Music=--See MUSIC OF DESPAIR AND OF HOPE.


                             PERSONAL WORK

   Our Roman Catholic brethren have a strong hold upon the
   cities--and why? Instead of putting a single priest in a great
   parish, as we put a single minister, they put a whole corps of
   clergy and a company of sisters to come into personal vital
   touch with the people, and especially with the sick and the poor.

   Campbell Morgan became pastor of Westminster Presbyterian Church
   in London with a beggarly attendance at the services. Soon the
   building was crowded to the doors. He said: “Do not give me
   credit for this great work. Give it to the twenty deaconesses
   who have gone from house to house, heart to heart, pleading the
   cause of Christ.”

   A priest of the Church of Rome says: “We have had very little
   anxiety in competition with Protestant church in our great
   cities, so long as a single man was both preacher and pastor in
   a great parish. But the deaconesses with black bonnets and white
   ties, who find their way to the hearthstones of the people,
   will win.”--J. P. BRUSHINGHAM, _Pittsburgh Christian
   Advocate_.

    (2356)


                   PERSONALITY AS A REDEMPTIVE FORCE

   The salvation of the world is not to be by schemes of salvation,
   but by saviors, and the saviors of society are persons fit to be
   strong, good seed. Why is not social redemption accomplished by
   the vast movement of social mechanism, in which we are all so
   much involved that every man’s trade--as Robert Louis Stevenson
   once said--is that of a joiner? It is because human society is
   not a factory, but a field; not a mechanical unity, but a vital
   unity; not made of wheels, but made of people. What is needed
   in our day, as never before, is not new social machinery, but
   new personality, more wisdom, sanity, patience, light, capacity
   to control the already elaborate mechanism of the time; and
   without these traits the wheels will soon run down and the
   work be undone, and the workers be smitten with despair; and
   the children of the kingdom will find themselves good people
   indeed, but not good seed, fit for the field of the modern
   world.--FRANCIS GREENWOOD PEABODY, “The Religious
   Education Association,” 1904.

    (2357)


                       PERSONALITY, INFLUENCE OF

   Marian Bonsall, who was sent to Japan by _The Housekeeper_
   to prepare a series of articles on the home life of that
   country, writes as follows of the Empress:

   American women read with interest and admiration of the active
   part taken by the Empress in Red Cross work during the war, and
   of how she spent many hours out of her days in making bandages.
   The effect of these bandages upon the wounded soldiers has
   been of deep interest to medical and scientific men, for the
   soldiers honored by them seemed to rally under a peculiar mental
   influence. All other bandages were destroyed after their first
   use; those made by the Empress were sterilized and used again
   for the simple reason of their effect on the recovery of the
   soldiers.

   The Empress used to go personally to the hospitals many times,
   and visit among the wounded. One of the servants of a friend
   of mine in Tokyo, told her of his inability to speak when as a
   wounded soldier he had lain in an army hospital and had been
   addrest by the Empress. Tho she was so wondrously kind and
   gracious he could not thank her, and even had he been able,
   he said, he knew no words sufficiently polite. Then he added
   proudly, “The Empress could not speak to every one, but the
   soldiers are her children.”

    (2358)


                       PERSONALITY IS A MYSTERY

   Science hath measured man in part; in the laboratory, science
   points to an analysis of a man weighing a hundred and fifty
   pounds. In one jar are ten or twelve quarts of water, in another
   jar the lime, the ash, the carbon, the phosphates, and then a
   tiny vial holding a little iodin, and a little phosphorus. But
   that row of jars containing all the elements of the body must
   not be labeled man. Beyond those jars is a certain immeasurable
   element, an impalpable something, an invisible essence, a secret
   spirit, a hidden power, that is fenced about with bones and
   sinews, but that will suddenly compel you to laugh, to love,
   to burn with moral indignation, and will spread out before
   you a canvas and dim your eyes with tears; that will wave a
   wonder-working wand woven of words, and show you an imperial
   palace built yonder upon foundations of clouds, and then with
   a stroke dissolve all, and leave not a wrack behind. These
   twelve jars, analyzed by science, can not write poems or paint
   pictures, or carve altars, or enact laws, or sing lullabies, or
   create a Christmas tree.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2359)


                       PERSONALITY, LOCATION OF

A writer in _The Atlantic Monthly_ says:

   The spinal cord runs along the back, with all its ganglia; the
   weight of the brain is well behind; yet we are not there. In
   other words, the curious thing is that we feel ourselves to be,
   not in the region where impressions are received and answered
   in the brain, and spinal cord, but where they first meet the
   nerve-extremities. We seem to inhabit not the citadel, but the
   outer walls. At the point of peripheral expansion of the nerves
   of sense, where the outer forces begin to be apprehended by
   us as inner--“in front,” where the fingers feel, and the nose
   smells and the eyes see--there, if anywhere, we find ourselves
   to be.

   I have often been interested to notice whereabouts on our
   bodily surface another animal looks to find us. The man or even
   the little child, looks at the face. Is it because the voice
   issues thence? Yet it is the eyes, rather than the mouth that
   is watched. Is it because the expression, the signal-station
   for the changing moods, is there more than elsewhere? A dog,
   also, invariably looks up into the face. So does a bird,
   notwithstanding the fact that the food comes from the hand. Why
   does he not consider the “I,” so far as his needs are concerned,
   to lie in the part that feeds him? But no; he cocks his head to
   one side, and directs his lustrous little eye straight to our
   own, in order to establish what communion he can with the very
   “him” of his master and friend.

   It is hardly less pathetic than our own human efforts to pierce,
   by the searching penetration of eyes, to the real personality of
   each other. We never succeed.

    (2360)


   =Personality, Multiplex=--See MULTIPLE CONSCIOUSNESS.


   =Personality Superior to Misfortune=--See MISFORTUNE,
      SUPERIORITY TO.


   =Perspective=--See POINT OF VIEW.


   =Perturbation=--See BAPTISM.


   =Perversion=--See GUIDANCE EVILWARD.


                          PERVERSION OF GIFTS

Dr. N. D. Hillis, speaking of the perversion of men’s talents to low or
bad uses, says:

   And oh, the pity of the waste and abuse of these gifts! Oh, the
   sorrow of Jesus at these opportunities despised and flung away!
   Are roses reddened for the swine to lift its tusk upon? Are
   pearls made to be flung in the mire, in which they are trampled
   and lost? Is a hospital fitted up as a room in which physicians
   and nurses riot, drinking up the precious wines, consuming the
   jellies, wasting the soft linens, while wounded soldiers lie in
   the darkness without, moaning and dying as their own life-blood
   ebbs away in the black night? When Philadelphia, in the morning
   after Gettysburg, rushed a relief train to the battle-field, how
   would the whole land have quivered with indignation at the news
   that the officers in charge had forgotten sobriety and honor,
   and looted the train of its gifts, counting the treasure to be
   personal to themselves, in utter contempt of heroes wounded and
   dying?

    (2361)

   See WOMAN’S SPHERE.


   =Perversity=--See GIRLS, LITTLE, AND SLAMMING DOORS.


                               PESSIMISM

   Carlyle was never a hopeful prophet. He called himself a radical
   of the quiet order, but he had none of the hopefulness of
   radicalism, nor was it in him to be quiet on any subject that
   interested him. There is a good deal of truth in the ironical
   remark of Maurice, that Carlyle believed in a God who left off
   governing the world at the death of Oliver Cromwell. He saw
   nothing in modern progress that justified its boasts, and it
   must be owned that his social forecasts have been all too amply
   fulfilled. The hopefulness of Emerson positively angered him.
   He took him round London, showing him the worst of its many
   abominations, asking after each had been duly objurgated, “Do
   you believe in the devil now?”--W. J. DAWSON, “Makers
   of English Prose.”

    (2362)


                        PESSIMISM IN LITERATURE

   A few days ago Mr. Berth, a young New Yorker, committed suicide
   in a hotel at St. Paul, Minn. The explanation given for his
   rash act is that constant study of pessimistic literature had
   affected his mind. Among his books was found a melancholy tale
   by Edgar Saltus, in which Berth had marked many depressing
   passages. About eighty years ago fashionable society in London
   affected great admiration for Addison’s tragedy of “Cato.” After
   one of the stage renditions of the play a man named Budgell,
   imprest by the closing scene of the play, in which the hero
   commits suicide, left the theater and plunging into the Thames
   was drowned. On his body was found this couplet:

    What Cato did and Addison approves
    Must needs be right.

   While such susceptibility to pessimistic writing as was shown
   by Berth and Budgell is, of course, extremely rare, it is
   nevertheless, a fact that an author who depicts life in dreary
   colors is sure to exert a most undesirable influence over
   many of his readers. The force of this applies to all kinds
   of writing. Whether a man pens an epic poem or a newspaper
   editorial, the tone of his philosophy is sure to leave its
   ultimate effect on those who peruse his words.--New York
   _World_.

    (2363)


   =Pessimists, The, and the Optimists=--See LOADS, BALKING UNDER.


                           PEST, CONTAGIOUS

_The Survey_, in commenting on Dr. H. G. Beyer’s statement at a
recent conference of the New York Academy of Medicine that the fly is
“not merely a pest but an epidemic,” says:

   One fly lays 120 eggs in the season, and as each of these eggs
   takes but ten days to reach maturity, it has been computed
   that twelve flies surviving the winter will produce 40,000 the
   following summer. When to this estimate of numbers is added the
   experimentally proved fact that one fly carries upon his legs
   alone anywhere between one and six million bacteria, there seems
   little exaggeration in Dr. Beyer’s characterization.

   Observation has shown that the fly is omnivorous and ubiquitous,
   and that, certain unsanitary conditions being fulfilled,
   where-ever the fly is, there also are certain diseases. In
   regard to these diseases the most startling evidence is given
   for typhoid, but careful experiments have shown that no less
   than ten others, among them tuberculosis, carbuncle, cholera,
   tapeworm and summer diarrhea, have been spread by flies, and
   there is good reason to believe that smallpox, leprosy and
   diphtheria might be added to the list.

   It is the omnivorousness of the fly, together with his choice of
   breeding-places, that makes him a menace to health. A fruitful
   source of disease bacteria is damp, decaying organic matter,
   and it is just such matter, usually stable refuse, that is used
   for a breeding-place by flies. Experiments with young flies
   fresh from the breeding-ground showed them to have live bacteria
   either on the outside of their bodies or in the digestive
   tracts. This same decayed organic matter is also the food of the
   fly, but with true democracy of taste he is glad to share man’s
   food also, and it is this willingness to take his dessert out of
   the sugar-bowl after a dinner of decayed fish that constitutes
   his chief danger to man.

    (2364)


   =Pests=--See BARRIERS; PIRACY, BIRD; REMEDY FOR PESTS.


   =Pests, Utilizing=--See INGENUITY.


                         PEW, IF I WERE IN THE

There are a great many things which can be done by those in the pew to
assist the ministry, and to better the Church and her services. Here
are a few of them. If I were in the pew:

   I would acquire the habit of getting to church on time, for
   then I would get the full benefit of the service and would not
   disturb others by my late arrival.

   I would have my regular seat, and see that it is occupied every
   Sunday.

   I would have my entire family with me on the same bench.

   Upon reaching my seat, I would kneel, or bow the head in a few
   words of silent prayer, asking the Lord to prepare my heart for
   a season of spiritual worship and the acceptance of the truths
   and instructions presented by His messengers.

   I would join in the singing with my whole soul, not making it a
   mere word or note service, as it often is.

   While public prayer is being offered, I would have a personal,
   silent prayer of my own to offer. This prayer would be short, so
   that, when through with it, I could follow the trend of the one
   who is praying aloud.

   I would greet every stranger and make him feel that I
   appreciated his coming to worship with us.

   I would see that every visiting member or stranger is invited
   into some home for lodging and entertainment. I would not forget
   to be hospitable.

   I would frequently invite the minister into my home, feeling
   that his presence would increase the spirituality of my family.

   I would not criticize the minister, the sermon, or the church,
   before my children, or non-church-members. I would exercise the
   greatest charity toward them all.

   I would frequently remember the minister with little gifts and
   tangible assistance, and thus help to share the sacrifices he
   makes for the Church--which means me and my family.

   I would occasionally call on the minister in his home.

   I would not be slow to praise him for his successes, and
   encourage him in his efforts. If I had any suggestions for his
   improvement, I would make them in a tactful, kindly way.

   I would actively cooperate with the minister in every church
   work.

   I would attend all council-meetings, and endeavor to increase
   the spirituality, peace, and prosperity of the Church.--O.
   H. YEREMAN, _Gospel Messenger_.

    (2365)


                             PHILANTHROPY

Dr. John Barnardo, who devoted his life to the rescue and cure of poor
children, tells the experiences here quoted:

   A lady on one occasion came to Stepney in her carriage. A child
   was in it. I granted her an interview, and she laid down five
   100-pound notes, saying they were mine if I would take the
   child and ask no questions. I did not take the child. Again, a
   well-known peer of the realm once sent his footman here with
   £100, asking me to take the footman’s son. No. The footman
   could support his child. Gold and silver will never open my
   doors unless there is real destitution.

   “It is to the homeless,” said the doctor, “the actually
   destitute, that we open our doors day and night, without money
   and without price.” (Text.)--_Westminster Gazette_, London.

    (2366)


                        PHILANTHROPY, PRACTICAL

   Samuel Saucerman is the originator of the “Trimmer Band,” which
   is an unique and effective method of promoting temperance and
   thrift in the young, from nine to sixteen years of age. To every
   boy in the State of Iowa who will take the pledge to _abstain
   from tobacco in every form_, _intoxicating liquor_, _gambling_
   and _profane language_, Mr. Saucerman will give $1.00 upon his
   joining one of these “Trimmer Bands,” and will pay him _one
   cent a day for three years_, and _another_ $1.00 at the end of
   that period. Members of these “Bands” are urged to save their
   nickels and dimes, which would otherwise be spent for tobacco
   and liquor, and also hold monthly meetings to discuss economy,
   finance, clean living, and everything in line with industry and
   morals. To show good faith, each boy must deposit 50 cents with
   his first dollar, and at the end of the three years, even if he
   has not himself saved a cent, he will have $12.00. The object is
   to establish habits of saving, which will enable every boy at
   twenty-one to have saved sufficient to start him in life, or to
   go to college.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (2367)


   =Photography of Germs=--See INVISIBLE, THE, MADE VISIBLE.


   =Physical Ailments=--See REMEDIES, STRANGE.


   =Physical Training=--See PLAY AND MORALS.


                      PHYSICAL WEAKNESS OVERCOME

Rev. W. F. Crafts, Ph.D., writes of the success of scores of men who
were born physically defective:

   The list includes club-footed Byron, halting Akenside, frail
   Spinoza, deformed Malebranche, disfigured Sam Johnson, Walter
   Scott, “a pining child”; Sir Isaac Newton, “who might have been
   put in a quart pot when born”; Voltaire, who was for some time
   too small and weak to christen; Charles Sumner, who weighed
   three and a half pounds at birth; Lyman Beecher, who weighed
   but three pounds at first, and was laid aside by his nurse to
   die; Goethe, Victor Hugo, and D’Alembert, who were so weak at
   birth that they also were not expected to live, and also Pope,
   Descartes, Gibbon, Kepler, Lord Nelson, Sir Christopher Wren,
   James Watt, John Howard, Washington Irving, William Wilberforce,
   and many others whom the world has delighted to honor as mental
   giants--a list that well-born children could hardly match--whose
   bodily weakness in infancy in any but a Christian land would
   have marked them as unworthy to be raised to manhood. The study
   of such a group ought to be an inspiration to boys handicapped
   by any physical weakness, and it also suggests that mind and
   will may conquer the most adverse circumstances.

    (2368)


   =Pibroch, The=--See MUSIC OF DESPAIR AND OF HOPE.


                       PICTURE, RECORD PRICE FOR

   Frans Hals was the hero of the evening at the Yerkes sale at
   Mendelssohn Hall, April 7, 1910. His “Portrait of a Woman”
   brought the highest price of the evening, $137,000, the highest
   price ever given for a picture at a sale in America and $8,000
   more than the record-breaking price of the evening before,
   $129,000, which was paid for a wonderful Turner.

   The dear old Dutch woman whose portrait Frans Hals painted more
   than 400 years ago could never have dreamed, if her practical
   soul was given to anything in the nature of visions, of ever
   being worth, in any form, so very many thousand dollars. She
   was the calmest-looking person in the hall when the curtains
   were drawn aside and she was revealed sitting quietly in her
   big chair, a wide ruff around her plump throat, a close cap
   encircling her placid face, one hand at her waist as she sat
   primly for her portrait, the other at her side clasping her
   Bible.--New York _Times_.

    (2369)


   =Pictures=--See PIETY.


                        PICTURES, INFLUENCE OF

   It pays to spend thought on the pictures we put on our walls. A
   charming woman once said:

   “My earliest impression is a picture that hung on the wall over
   my bed and which I had to look at the last thing every night
   before I went to sleep. It was that of a white horse upon the
   back of which was crouched the body of a fierce tiger, with his
   teeth and claws embedded in the flesh of the horse. The blood
   ran down from the wounds and the whole thing was frightful to
   me. I went to sleep every night afraid and very uncomfortable.
   This picture is as vivid to me to-day as tho I was looking at
   the real thing, and will never be erased.”

   If that had been the picture of “The Guardian Angel,” or “The
   Evening Prayer,” or some one of the many that are pleasing and
   that teach some beautiful lesson, that woman would have had a
   happier remembrance, and would be better both physically and
   morally.--_Religious Telescope._

    (2370)

       *       *       *       *       *

   While we empower the police to put down with a strong hand the
   exhibition in shop windows, and the censor of stage plays and
   spectacles to interdict the parade in theaters of pictures and
   scenes of an “immoral” character, because it is recognized that
   these have a tendency to corrupt the mind of youth--and age,
   too--nothing whatever is done to restrain the daily increasing
   evil of pictorial placards displayed on every boarding, and of
   highly-wrought scenes produced at nearly all the theaters, which
   not only direct the thoughts, but actively stir the passions of
   the people in such way as to familiarize the average mind with
   murder in all its forms, and to break down that protective sense
   of “horror” which nature has given us, with the express purpose,
   doubtless, of opposing an obstacle to the evil influence of
   the exemplification of homicide. It does seem strange--passing
   strange--that this murder culture by the educationary use of
   the pictorial art has not been checked by public authority. We
   have no wish to make wild affirmations, but knowing what we
   do, as observers of development, we can have no hesitation in
   saying that the increasing frequency of horribly brutal outrages
   is by no means unaccountable. The viciously inclined are, in a
   sense, always weak-minded--that is to say, they are especially
   susceptible to influences moving them in the direction their
   passions incline them to take; and when the mind (or brain)
   is imprest through the senses, and particularly the sense of
   sight, in such manner as to produce mental pictures, either in
   waking thoughts or dreams of homicide, the impulsive organism
   is, as it were, prepared for the performance of the deeds which
   form the subjects of the consciousness. We are, of course,
   writing technically; but the facts are indisputable, and we
   trust they will be sufficiently plain. It is high time that this
   ingenious and persistent murder-culture should cease.--London
   _Lancet_.

    (2371)


                              PICTURESQUE

   Thomas Rowlandson, the artist, at one time in his career
   devoted himself to book illustration, in a series of plates on
   Goldsmith, Fielding, Smollett, Sterne and other humorists of
   his day. It was this that led William Combe, then in a debtors’
   prison, and who had never met the artist, to write his humorous
   poem, “Dr. Syntax in Search of the Picturesque.”

Ought not every Dr. Syntax of the pulpit or platform go in search of
the picturesque? (Text.)

    2372)


                                 PIETY

   In considering the pictures of sacred subjects produced in the
   early ages of faith and simplicity, we must not forget that
   the chief intention of the artist was to stimulate the piety
   of the spectator, and not to make a “pretty” picture. Thus
   it is recorded of the saintly Florentine monk, Fra Angelico
   (1387–1455), that before he began the painting of a religious
   subject he fasted and prayed, and that while he was at work
   on his picture he always remained kneeling.--FREDERICK
   KEPPEL, “Christmas in Art.”

    (2373)


                             PILGRIM, THE

Charlotte Wilson, in _Scribner’s_, writes a song of the pilgrim
who minds not the hardships or fortunes of the road so he but reaches
the goal of the journey:

    Ah, little Inn of Sorrow,
    What of thy bitter bread?
    What of thy ghostly chambers,
    So I be shelterèd?
    ’Tis but for a night, the firelight
    That gasps on thy cold hearthstone;
    To-morrow my load and the open road
    And the far light leading on!

    Ah, little Inn of Fortune,
    What of thy blazing cheer,
    Where glad through the pensive evening
    Thy bright doors beckon clear?
    Sweet sleep on thy balsam-pillows,
    Sweet wine that will thirst assuage--
    But send me forth o’er the morning earth
    Strong for my pilgrimage!

    Ah, distant End of the Journey,
    What if thou fly my feet?
    What if thou fade before me
    In splendor wan and sweet?
    Still the mystical city lureth--
    The quest is the good knight’s part;
    And the pilgrim wends through the end of the ends
    Toward a shrine and a Grail in his heart.(Text.)

    (2374)


   =Pilgrimage=--See JOURNEY TO HEAVEN.


   =Pilgrimage, The Mecca=--See MECCA, INFLUENCE OF.


                            PILOT, NEED OF

A man who spurns the guidance of others or of God is like this
self-confident sea captain:

   A bright boy went to sea; he loved it and rose to quick
   promotion. While quite a young man he became master of a ship.
   One day a passenger spoke to him upon the voyage, and asked if
   he should anchor off a certain headland, supposing he would
   anchor there, and telegraph for a pilot to take the vessel into
   port.

   “Anchor! no, not I. I mean to be in dock with the morning tide.”

   “I thought perhaps you would signal for a pilot.”

   “I am my own pilot,” was the curt reply.

   Intent upon reaching port by morning he took a narrow channel
   to save distance. Experienced sailors on board shook their
   heads dubiously, while cautious passengers besought the young
   captain to take a wider course. He only laughed at their fears
   and declared he would be in dock by daybreak. A sudden squall
   swooped down upon them; wild alarm spread throughout the vessel.
   Enough to say that the captain was ashore earlier than he
   promised--tossed sportively upon the weedy beach, a dead thing
   that the waves were weary of, and his ship and freight were
   scattered over the angry sea. The glory of that young man was
   strength; but he was his own pilot.

    (2375)

   See CHRIST OUR PILOT.


                             PIRACY, BIRD

The Buffalo _Evening News_ gives us the following from the city
forester of that city:

   A war of extermination has been declared against the English
   sparrow by the Department of Agriculture, which has just issued
   a bulletin on the subject in which this busy, fighting bird
   is outlawed as a pirate of the air. It is declared that he
   studiously hunts and eats insects which are beneficial to plant
   life, while he more or less passes over those which are harmful.
   The only good thing he does is to eat the seed of weeds and
   prevent their spread. Aside from that there is nothing to be
   said in his favor.

   More than that, he is murderous. He hunts the nesting-places and
   destroys eggs and young bluebirds, house-wrens, tree-swallows
   and barn-swallows. The robin, the catbird, and the mocking-bird
   he attacks and drives out of parks and shade-trees. He has no
   song, but he drives out the song-birds and brings only noise in
   return.

   After having learned all this about the sparrow after an
   extensive investigation, the Department of Agriculture describes
   various ways to destroy him.

   City Forester Filer said yesterday he has not seen a copy of the
   bulletin, but that he agrees with its conclusions. “There is a
   good deal of justice in declaring the English sparrow a pirate,”
   said Mr. Filer. “These birds were originally imported to New
   York to get rid of an insect pest, the linden moth, which that
   city was then fighting. The sparrow didn’t like these moths, and
   he doesn’t like any caterpillar with fuzz on it, and he took to
   the streets for his living. They spread and multiplied very fast.

   “The robin is the only other bird we have in Buffalo in numbers
   and the sparrows eat their eggs. In the parks we have a few
   other varieties, but they are not numerous, and the sparrows are
   not as plentiful in the parks as they are in the streets, where
   they prefer to get their living.

   “Most of the destructive moths, particularly the gipsy, tussock
   and browntail, have hairy caterpillars, and the sparrows will
   not eat them, so they are no good for that purpose.”

    (2376)


   =Placards=--See PICTURES, INFLUENCE OF.


                         PLACE, FILLING ONE’S

   Sir Michael Costa was once rehearsing with a vast array of
   performers and hundreds of voices, when, in the mighty chorus,
   amid the thunder of the organ, and the roll of drums, and the
   blare of brass instruments, and the clashing of cymbals, he
   suddenly stopt and exclaimed, “Where is the piccolo?” That
   little instrument had ceased to play, and the great master of
   music missed it.

So in life’s chorus, the least man can make or mar it by faithfulness
or neglect. (Text.)

    (2377)


                          PLACE, IN THE RIGHT

   The rainbow is one of the most beautiful things in nature. It
   is made by a series and succession of falling drops, the series
   stretching across the sky, and the successive drops catching
   the reflection and refraction left by the drop below. Each drop
   has but a minute ray among the millions, and has this but for
   an instant as it comes into the right angle with the sun; but
   all together and in succession spread wide the beautiful arch
   of hope and promise. Each of us is among God’s creatures only
   as a single drop in the broad shower, and only for a little
   is our opportunity; but if we are in our place and in the
   right angle toward God, we may help spread His glory far and
   wide.--FRANKLIN NOBLE, “Sermons in Illustration.”

    (2378)


                       PLAGIARISM, DETECTION OF

   A man might as well hoist a ladder in a village at noonday and
   try to steal the town clock without being observed as to expect
   to carry off literary ware in our time and not be found out. The
   newspaper editor, scissors in hand and mucilage on the table,
   sits up to his chin in exchanges from the four winds of heaven.
   Beside that, all the world is traveling now. Fares are so cheap
   and transportation so rapid that before every preacher, and
   before every lecturer, and before every religious exhorter,
   there may sit persons from the most unexpected quarter, and
   if they heard three years ago something delivered in New
   Orleans which you delivered in Brooklyn, the discovery will
   be reported. Quote from all books you can lay your hands on.
   Quote from all directions. It is a compliment to have breadth
   of reading to be able to quote. But be sure to announce it as
   a quotation. Ah! how many are making a mistake in this thing;
   it is a mistake that a man can not afford to make. Four commas
   upside down--two at the beginning of the paragraph, two at the
   close of the paragraph--will save many a man’s integrity and
   usefulness.--T. DE WITT TALMAGE.

    (2379)


                            PLAN IN NATURE

   There are several hundred thousand different kinds of animals
   living on this globe of the different types. Every one of them
   has its line of development. Every sparrow begins with the egg,
   and goes through all the changes which are characteristic of
   sparrow life, until it is capable of producing new eggs, which
   will go through the same change. Every butterfly comes from the
   egg, which produces the caterpillar, which becomes a chrysalis,
   and then a butterfly, laying eggs to go through the same
   changes. So with all animals, whether of higher or lower type.
   In fact, the animal kingdom as it is now, is undergoing greater
   changes every year than the whole animal kingdom has ever passed
   through from the beginning until now; and yet we never see one
   of these animals swerve from the plan pointed out, or produce
   anything else than that which is like itself.--PROF. LOUIS
   AGASSIZ.

    (2380)


                             PLAN, LACK OF

   Emerson tells that when on a trip to New Hampshire he found
   a large building going up in a country town. Struck by its
   ungainly and rambling appearance, he asked a man who was working
   at it, who the architect was. And the reply was, “Oh, there
   isn’t any architect settled on as yet. I’m just building it, you
   see, and there’s a man coming from Boston next month to put the
   architecture into it.”

    (2381)


                       PLANS, HUMAN, TRANSCENDED

The Rev. W. H. Fitchett says of John Wesley:

   Had Wesley done nothing more than preach or write his memory
   might have failed. But at this stage Wesley links himself by one
   great achievement, not merely to English history, but to the
   history of religion. He creates a church! He did not do this
   consciously, or of deliberate purpose. He strove, indeed, not to
   do it; he protested he would never do it. But as history shows,
   he actually did it! And since history is not so much philosophy
   teaching by examples as God interpreting Himself by events, we
   are entitled to say that Wesley, in laying the foundations of a
   new church, did something that, no doubt, outran his own human
   vision, but which fulfilled a divine purpose.--“Wesley and His
   Century.”

    (2382)


                             PLANT WORSHIP

   The plant worship which holds so prominent a place in the
   history of the primitive races of mankind, would appear to have
   sprung from a perception of the beauty and utility of trees.
   Survivals of this still linger on in many parts of Europe.
   The peasants in Bohemia will sally forth into their gardens
   before sunrise on Good Friday, and falling upon their knees
   before a tree will exclaim: “I pray, O green tree, that God may
   make thee good.” At night-time they will run to and fro about
   their gardens crying: “Bud, O trees, bud, or I will flog you.”
   In England the Devonshire farmers and their men will to this
   day go out into their orchards after supper on the evening of
   Twelfth Day, carrying with them a large milk-pail of cider,
   with roasted apples prest into it. All present hold in their
   hands an earthenware cup filled with liquor, and taking up their
   stand beneath those apple-trees which have borne the most fruit,
   address them in these words:

    Health to thee, good apple-tree,
    Well to bear pocketfuls, hatfuls,
    Peckfuls, bushel bagfuls!

   simultaneously dashing the contents of their cups over the
   trees.--_The Gentleman’s Magazine._

    (2383)


   =Planting That Multiplied=--See MISSIONARY, A LITTLE.


                            PLAY AND MORALS

   Play is related to morals. As we learn from Judge Lindsey: “The
   whole question of juvenile law-breaking--or at least nine-tenths
   of it--is a question of children’s play. A boy who breaks the
   law is in nine cases out of ten not a criminal. He is obeying
   an instinct that is not only legitimate, but vital, and which,
   if it finds every lawful channel choked up, will seek an outlet
   at the next available point. The boy has no especial desire to
   come in conflict with the laws and usages of civilized society.”
   Give a boy an opportunity to play at his favorite game, and the
   policeman will need, as Mr. Lee puts it, “a gymnasium himself
   to keep his weight down.” Give children playgrounds, and the
   same spirit and imagination which form rowdy gangs will form
   baseball clubs and companies for games and drills. Precinct
   captains attribute the existence of rowdyism and turbulence to
   lack of better playgrounds than the streets. They break lamps
   and windows because they have no other provision made for them.
   London, after forty years’ experience, says tersely, “Crime
   in our large cities is to a great extent simply a question
   of athletics.” “This is not theory, but is the testimony you
   will get from any policeman or schoolmaster who has been in a
   neighborhood before and after a playground was started there.
   The public playground is a moral agent, and should be in every
   community.” The play of youth needs careful and scientific
   direction, so as to develop active and manly qualities of mind
   and character.--GEORGE J. FISHER, “Proceedings of the
   Religious Education Association,” 1907.

    (2384)


                           PLAY, COMMENDABLE

   Lovely human play is like the play of the sun. There’s a worker
   for you. He, steady to his time, is set as a strong man to run
   his course, but also, he rejoiceth as a strong man to run his
   course. See how he plays in the morning, with the mists below,
   and the clouds above, with a ray here and a flash there, and a
   shower of jewels everywhere--that’s the sun’s play; and great
   human play is like his--all various--all full of light and life,
   and tender, as the dew of the morning.--JOHN RUSKIN.

    (2385)


                            PLAY NECESSARY

   The child has an artificial occupation named play through games.
   Having the food as raw material for the body, that food can
   be built into the physique only through the free play of the
   legs and arms, through exercise and fresh air. In Prospect Park
   we behold the maple bough pushing out a soft growth of one or
   two feet, and then the sap coursing through the young growth
   furnishes food; then comes the spring and summer winds to give
   the sap and the bough its exercise; playing with the leaves in
   the air, bending it, twisting it, hardening the young growth,
   until it can stand up against the storms of winter. And not
   otherwise does the growing child need its exercise. The little
   boy flings out his arm with the ball, and so stretches the
   arm. Then, when the arm is stretched, along comes the angel of
   the blood and drops in a little wedge, so that the stretched
   arm can not draw back. Thus the growth is permanent. This is
   the function of all the games for little children, to stretch
   the blood into the body and then by forcing the arterial blood
   into the extremities to make the stretching permanent. One
   thing, therefore, is vital, the playground. (Text.)--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (2386)


                         PLAY, SIGNIFICANCE OF

   When things become signs, when they gain a representative
   capacity as standing for other things, play is transformed from
   mere physical exuberance into an activity involving a mental
   factor. A little girl who had broken her doll was seen to
   perform with the leg of the doll all the operations of washing,
   putting to bed, and fondling, that she had been accustomed to
   perform with the entire doll. The part stood for the whole;
   she reacted not to the stimulus sensibly present, but to the
   meaning suggested by the sense object. So children use a stone
   for a table, leaves for plates, acorns for cups. So they use
   their dolls, their trains, their blocks, their other toys.
   In manipulating them, they are living not with the physical
   things, but in the large world of meanings, natural and social,
   evoked by these things. So when children play horse, play
   store, play house or making calls, they are subordinating the
   physically present to the ideally signified. In this way, a
   world of meanings, a store of concepts (so fundamental to all
   intellectual achievement), is defined and built up.--JOHN
   DEWEY, “How We Think.”

    (2387)


                         PLAYFUL ATTITUDE, THE

   Playfulness is a more important consideration than play. The
   former is an attitude of mind; the latter is a passing outward
   manifestation of this attitude. When things are treated simply
   as vehicles of suggestion, what is suggested overrides the
   thing. Hence the playful attitude is one of freedom. The person
   is not bound to the physical traits of things, nor does he
   care whether a thing really means (as we say) what he takes
   it to represent. When the child plays horse with a broom and
   cars with chairs, the fact that the broom does not really
   represent a horse, or a chair a locomotive, is of no account.
   In order, then, that playfulness may not terminate in arbitrary
   fancifulness and in building up an imaginary world alongside
   the world of actual things, it is necessary that the play
   attitude should gradually pass into a work attitude.--JOHN
   DEWEY, “How we Think.”

    (2388)


                          PLAYTHINGS, EARTH’S

    He begged me for the little toys at night,
      That I had taken, lest he play too long,
    The little broken toys--his sole delight.
      I held him close in wiser arms and strong,
      And sang with trembling voice the even-song.

    Reluctantly the drowsy lids drooped low,
      The while he pleaded for the boon denied.
    Then, when he slept, sweet dream, content to know,
      I mended them and laid them by his side
    That he might find them in the early light,
    And wake the gladder for this joyous sight.

    So, Lord, like children, at the even fall
      We weep for broken playthings, loath to part,
    While Thou, unmoved, because Thou knowest all,
      Dost fold us from the treasures of our heart;
    And we shall find them at the morning-tide
    Awaiting us, unbroke and beautified.

    --_Ainslee’s Magazine._

    (2389)


                            PLEASANT LOOKS

   If one does not believe that his countenance adds to or detracts
   anything from the lives or expressions of others, let him pause
   for a moment before that now celebrated “Billiken.” It is almost
   impossible to look at the little imp and not smile. The Japanese
   teach their maids in the hotels, and those also in higher walks
   of life, the art of smiling. They are compelled to practise
   before a mirror. One can not stay long in Japan without being
   inoculated with the disposition to “look pleasant.” The “look
   pleasant, please,” of the photographer goes deeper than the
   photograph plate.

   No one wants to associate long with an animated vinegar cruet. A
   disposition is easily guessed from the angle of the corners of
   the mouth; a disposition is molded by compelling those angles to
   turn up or down. If a merry heart maketh a glad countenance, it
   is also true that a glad countenance maketh a merry heart--in
   the one who has it and in the one who beholds it. “Iron
   sharpeneth iron. So a man sharpeneth the countenance of his
   friend.”--_Baptist Commonwealth._

    (2390)


   =Pleasure a Deceiver=--See SLAVES OF PLEASURE.


                          PLEASURE, ETHICS OF

   Mrs. Wesley discusses with exquisite good sense the whole ethics
   of pleasure:

   “Would you judge of the lawfulness or unlawfulness of pleasure
   take this rule: Whatever weakens your reason, impairs the
   tenderness of your conscience, obscures your sense of God, or
   takes off the relish of spiritual things--in short, whatever
   increases the strength and authority of your body over your
   mind, that thing is sin to you, however innocent it may be in
   itself.”

   The wisest of casuists might find it difficult to better that
   interpretation of human duty!--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley
   and His Century.”

    (2391)


                         PLEASURE, MOCKERY OF

   In the days of the Inquisition cruel men deceived the prisoner,
   as pleasure and sensualism deceive the young now. With soft
   words the jailer promised the prisoner release on the morrow.
   When the appointed hour came he opened the door and pointed down
   the corridor, and oh, joy of joys! yonder was the green sward,
   cool with grass, and gay with tulips and crimson flowers. With
   a shout of joy the prisoner ran forward to cast himself upon
   the cool ground, but lo! it was a mockery, a delusion, a lying
   deceit. What afar off seemed grass was really sheet-iron painted
   in the similitude of verdure. What looked like red tulips and
   crimson flowers was iron beaten into the similitude of blossoms
   and heated red hot by flames underneath. Where coolness was
   promised scorching was given. The vista promised pleasure; it
   gave pain. And when a man or a woman looks upon the worldly
   life, with all its pleasures of appetite and physical sense,
   from afar off, it wears a brilliant aspect and a crimson hue.
   But near at hand the scene changes, and lo, the honey is bitter,
   all the fountains of peace are poisoned.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2392)


                         PLEASURES, POISONOUS

   A gentleman in Paris desired to buy a ring, and, as he tried
   on several rings in the jeweler’s store, he noticed one that
   was set with tiny eagle’s claws. The next day his hand began to
   swell. The doctor told him that he was poisoned, and on inquiry
   he found that the old ring came from Italy, and was once used
   for poisoning an enemy. For four centuries that particle of
   poison had remained between the eagle’s claws.

Watch the rings of pleasure which the world offers, there are within
them the eagle’s claws with the poison. Those pleasures may sparkle
with fascination and seem greatly desirable, but they mean death in the
end. The poison is subtle; the claws are concealed; but at last poison
and claws do their fatal work.

    (2393)


   =Pledge=--See LOYALTY.


                            PLEDGE-KEEPING

   The Archbishop of York, at a recent meeting, told how, when he
   was at Portsmouth, he had induced a working man to sign the
   pledge. The man said: “Ah, sir, I won’t be able to keep this
   pledge. Every night I have to pass ten public-houses, and my
   mates are with me, and we treat each other.”

   The archbishop said, “Do you think it would help you if I were
   to see you home?”

   At this the meeting broke out into a cheer.

   “Don’t cheer that,” said the archbishop; “that is the kind of
   work which the clergy are doing every day.” The man replied, “If
   you could only see me past these houses, I should get home all
   right.”

    (2394)


                                 PLUCK

   What a characteristic story of poverty and pluck is that of
   Andrew Carnegie! His father, a Scotch weaver who worked with
   hand-looms, thrown out of employment by improved machinery,
   came to Pittsburg when “Andy” was but ten years of age. The boy
   went to work as a bobbin-boy at $1.20 a week. At thirteen he
   was promoted to the post of engineer of the factory engine. At
   fourteen he became telegraph boy, and was promoted at sixteen,
   for quick intelligence, to the post of telegraph operator at
   a salary of $300 a year. About this time his father died, and
   the support of the family devolved on him. He soon got a dollar
   a week extra for copying telegrams for the papers, which he
   called his “first bit of capital.” His salary went for household
   expenses, but the dollar surplus he invested wisely, first in
   the express business, then in sleeping-cars, and, finally, as an
   outcome of his management of transportation in the Civil War, in
   a plant to manufacture iron railway bridges. And so by alertness
   and economy and untiring energy he came to be the world’s most
   distinguished manufacturer and philanthropist, putting as much
   talent into giving as he had before put into getting.

    (2395)

   See COURAGE IN LIFE; STEDFASTNESS.


                           POET APPRECIATED

   “If ‘W,’ at Haverhill, will continue to favor us with pieces as
   beautiful as the one inserted in our poetical department to-day,
   we shall esteem it a favor.” This note appeared in the _Free
   Press_, of Newburyport, Mass., June 8, 1826. The “W” referred
   to was John G. Whittier, then in his nineteenth year, and the
   editor of the _Free Press_ was William Lloyd Garrison,
   then in his twenty-first. “W” did continue to “favor us” with
   pieces quite as beautiful as the one inserted in the _Free
   Press_ in 1826; indeed, with pieces more and more beautiful,
   of a wider and deeper application to American life, until he was
   recognized--tho not till after many years--as the chief of the
   purely American poets, indebted to America and its life in the
   highest degree for his equipment in song.

   The first piece of “original poetry”--we are told by the sons of
   Mr. Garrison, in their admirable life of their father--was found
   lying near the door in the office of the _Free Press_. The
   editor, having a strong tendency to tear “original” sin--verse
   or otherwise--to pieces, says he had a momentary impulse to
   dispose of this in that way, without reading it; but summoning
   the resolution so needful in an editor, he read the poem and
   published it. He had the courage, moreover, to inquire about
   the writer, and found him to be a “Quaker lad who was daily at
   work on the shoemaker’s bench, with hammer and lapstone, at
   East Haverhill. Jumping into a vehicle, I lost no time,” says
   the editor, “in driving to see the youthful rustic bard, who
   came into the room with shrinking diffidence, almost unable to
   speak, and blushing like a maiden.” The parents of the lad were
   poor, “unable to give him a suitable education,” and unwilling,
   as being unable to, let him indulge in the unprofitable but
   delightful pursuit of verse-making. “Poetry will not give him
   bread,” they said, as many a father has had to say. But the
   poet, proverbially “born, not made,” is not easily unmade, since
   nature presides at the birth and fosters her own.--_Journal of
   Education._

    (2396)


   =Poetry and Religion=--See RELIGION AND POETRY.


                       POETRY, POPULAR POWER OF

Poetry is not always the possession of the mart and street, but in
the case of a favored few who write, there is this high compliment of
approval, as the following suggests:

   Walter Camp was talking about football at a dinner at the New
   York Athletic Club.

   “Had we not reformed our football,” he said, “it would have
   fallen into grave disrepute--into such grave disrepute as
   surrounded cricket and football both during the Boer War, when
   Kipling wrote his poem about

    “‘The flannel fools at the wicket,
    The muddied oafs at the goal.’

   “That poem hit the English ‘footers’ hard. One of the English
   ‘footers’ during their visit to us told me how he was walking
   one day to his club in football clothes, when a newsboy hailed
   him.

   “‘Paper, sir?’

   “The footballer walked on; whereupon the boy yelled after him:

   “‘Yah, ye muddied oaf! Like as not ye can’t even read!’”

    (2397)


   =Poet’s Insight=--See VIEWPOINT, THE.


                             POINT OF VIEW

   The ancient Athenians demanded a last statue by their great
   sculptors, Alcamenes and Phidias. When the two Minervas were
   unveiled in the public square, the people declared the statue of
   Alcamenes to be perfect, believing it to be living. The judges
   were about to award the prize. Phidias calmly approached the
   tribunal and said: “Is it not for the top of a column the chosen
   statue is designed?” “Certainly,” replied the magistrates.
   “Then,” said Phidias, “is it not from the effects produced by
   its height that judgment should be pronounced?” The statues were
   raised to their positions by machinery. The Minerva of Alcamenes
   lost her charms in the ascent. The statue of Phidias, which had
   shocked the spectators by its massive, unpolished appearance in
   the Forum, from the column’s height took on such grandeur and
   majesty that the multitudes shouted with one accord, “Phidias is
   the sculptor of the gods!” (Text.)

    (2398)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In “Stories of English Artists” we are told that Gainsborough’s
   pictures can only be properly appreciated when viewed at the
   right distance. As Sir Joshua Reynolds remarked in one of his
   famous “Discourses,” all those odd scratches and marks which on
   close examination are so observable in Gainsborough’s pictures,
   and which even to experienced painters appear rather the effect
   of accident than design, this chaos, this uncouth and shapeless
   appearance by a kind of magic at a certain distance assume form,
   and all the parts seem to drop into their proper places.

No doubt the apparent chaos and disorder of human events and careers,
and of the natural world, would fall into order and express to us God’s
wise designs if we could place ourselves at the right point of view!

    (2399)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Two old darkies, lounging on a street corner in Richmond,
   Va., one day, were suddenly aroused by a runaway team that
   came dashing toward them at breakneck speed. The driver,
   scared nearly to death, had abandoned his reins, and was
   awkwardly climbing out of the wagon at the rear end. One of
   the old negroes said: “Brer’ Johnson, sure as you born, man,
   de runaway horse am powerful gran’ and a monstrous fine sight
   to see.” Johnson shook his head doubtfully, and then replied,
   philosophically, “Dat ’pends berry much, nigger, on whedder you
   be standin’ on de corner obsarvin’ of him, or be gittin’ ober de
   tail-board ob de waggin.”--MARION J. VERDERY.

    (2400)

   See DISTANCE.

       *       *       *       *       *

   A skilful artist was traveling in Egypt, painting pictures as
   he went. One day he showed to a gentleman who had lived in that
   country for many years one of his pictures of the Nile. The
   friend criticized the picture somewhat severely, maintaining
   that it was not true to nature. Here on the canvas the Nile
   appeared blue and clear; whereas, through all the years of his
   residence by the very banks of the river, he had never seen
   its waters otherwise than brown and muddy. The artist replied
   that he had painted it as it had appeared to him. He invited
   his friend to a place situated at some distance from the stream
   and then turned round to look back. To the astonishment of the
   critic, there lay the river, clear, blue, and sparkling; however
   muddy it might be at close quarters, when surveyed from afar
   its surface reflected the brilliance of the sky overhead. The
   gentleman admitted that he had always been content to gaze down
   into the muddy waters by the bank and so had missed the charm of
   the best view of the Nile.

Would it not be better for many of us, supposing some things seem to be
unpleasant, or ugly, or unnecessary, to view them from a more favorable
position?

    (2401)


   =Poison, Disguised=--See DEATH MASKED IN BEAUTY.


                             POISON DRINK

   An officer from Japan, visiting America, one day, while looking
   about a big city, saw a man stop a milk-wagon.

   “Is he going to arrest the man?” he asked.

   “No,” was the answer; “he must see that the milk sold by this
   man is pure, with no water or chalk mixed with it.”

   “Would chalk or water poison the milk?”

   “No; but people want pure milk if they pay for it.”

   Passing a whisky saloon, a man staggered out, struck his head
   against a lamp-post, and fell to the sidewalk.

   “What is the matter with that man?”

   “He is full of bad whisky.”

   “Is it poison?”

   “Yes; a deadly poison,” was the answer.

   “Do you watch the selling of whisky as you do the milk?” asked
   the Japanese.

   “No.”

   At the markets they found a man looking at the meat to see if it
   was healthy.

   “I can’t understand your country,” said the Japanese. “You watch
   the meat and the milk, and let men sell whisky as much as they
   please.”

    (2402)


   =Poison Pleasures=--See PLEASURES, POISONOUS.


                         POISONS AND MEDICINES

   Almost all medicines are poisons. That which saves life in one
   dose causes death in another. There is no more useful medicine
   in the modern pharmacopoeia than arsenic; yet three out of five
   women who poison themselves do so with arsenic. Strychnine is
   a terrible poison, but nux vomica is a most valuable drug.
   In Greece criminals were sometimes forced to take their own
   lives by drinking a cup of hellebore; we in our day cure many
   diseases of the stomach with veratrum. If a drug which destroys
   life under given conditions saves it in others, why may not a
   disease germ which is noxious in one set of circumstances prove
   beneficial when the circumstances are changed and the exhibition
   of the germ regulated by scientific principles.--San Francisco
   _Call_.

    (2403)


                            POLICY, SELFISH

There is much that passes muster as acts of generosity which, if
spiritually analyzed, would be found to be merely selfish policy, like
that exercised by the spider:

   The moment an ill-starred fly or other insect comes in contact
   with the net of the spider, it is sprung upon with the rapidity
   of lightning, and if the captured insect be of small size the
   spider conveys it at once to the place of slaughter, and having
   at its leisure sucked all its juice, throws out the carcass. If
   the insect be large and struggles to escape, the spider envelops
   its prey in a mesh of thread, and its legs and wings secured,
   it is conveyed to its den and devoured. But when a bee or large
   fly, too powerful to be mastered by the spider, gets entangled
   in its toils, then the wary animal, conscious of its incapacity
   to contend with such fearful odds, makes no attempt to seize or
   embarrass the victim. On the contrary, it assists the entangled
   captive in its efforts to free itself, and often goes so far
   as to break that part of the web from which it is suspended.
   This act has upon it the color of generosity, but it is really
   nothing more than the performance of selfish cunning. The
   tyrant, feeling himself incapable of doing an injury, determines
   to have no molestation. To this end he performs an act of
   manumission.

    (2404)


   =Polish=--See EDUCATION.


                              POLITENESS

   “Women should not complain that they have to stand in
   street-cars and other public conveyances,” said an old
   gentleman. “Children learn common politeness at home, if they
   learn it at all.

   “On the car that I just left was a handsomely drest woman and
   her son, a fine-looking boy of ten. The car was crowded when
   I got on and the little man and his mother sat near the door.
   As soon as I entered the boy made a motion to get up, but his
   mother held him down.

   “‘Mama, the man is lame,’ I heard him whisper. ‘I don’t care
   if he is; you have paid for your seat and have a right to it,’
   she answered him pettishly. The little fellow blushed at his
   mother’s remark.

   “Now, that woman will probably read the riot act to the next man
   who refrains from giving her a seat in a crowded car, but what
   can she expect when she teaches her own son to be discourteous
   to the lame and the halt?” (Text.)

    (2405)


   =Politics=--See INTERESTS, SIGNIFICANT.


   =Politics a Duty=--See BALLOT A DUTY.


                         POLITICS IN DISFAVOR

While the science of politics ought to be held in the highest esteem
for what its true nature and possibilities are, yet in actual life and
practise the reverse is often true. As an instance of popular disfavor,
the following incident in _Success_ is in point:

   Representative Lorimer, of Chicago, who is a great walker, was
   out for a tramp along the conduit road leading from Washington,
   when, after going a few miles, he sat down to rest.

   “Want a lift, mister?” asked a good-natured Maryland farmer
   driving that way.

   “Thank you,” responded Mr. Lorimer, “I will avail myself of your
   kind offer.”

   The two rode in silence for a while. Presently the teamster
   asked: “Professional man?”

   “Yes,” answered Lorimer, who was thinking of a bill he had
   pending before the House.

   After another long pause, the farmer observed: “Say, you ain’t a
   lawyer or you’d be talkin’; you ain’t a doctor ’cause you ain’t
   got no satchel, and you shore ain’t a preacher, from the looks
   of you. What is your profession, anyhow?”

   “I am a politician,” replied Lorimer.

   The Marylander gave a snort of disgust “Politics ain’t no
   profession; politics is a disorder.”

    (2406)


                              POPULARITY

John Wesley keenly appreciated the dangers that attend public favor.

   Among the quaint but intensely practical counsels he gives are
   some as to the art of escaping popularity:

   How shall we avoid popularity? We mean such esteem and love
   from the people as is not for the glory of God. 1. Earnestly
   pray for a piercing sense of the danger and the sinfulness of
   it. 2. Take care how you ingratiate yourself with any people
   by slackness of discipline. 3. Or by any method which another
   preacher can not follow. 4. Warn the people among whom you are
   most of esteeming or loving you too much. 5. Converse sparingly
   with those who are particularly fond of you.

   Times and men are strangely changed since those words were
   written. What preacher to-day has to study anxiously “how to
   avoid popularity,” or finds any necessity for warning the people
   among whom he labors against “esteeming him or loving him too
   much!”--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (2407)


   =Population=--See CITIES OF THE WORLD; CITY, GROWTH OF A GREAT.


   =Population, Non-Church and Church-Membership=--See CHURCH
      STATISTICS.


   =Population, Over-=--See SURVIVAL.


   =Populations, Religious, of World=--See RELIGIOUS CONDITIONS OF THE
      WORLD.


   =Position, Advantage of=--See FAVORITISM.


   =Position and Worth=--See WORTH, ESTIMATING.


                              POSSESSION

   When the Australian miner was drowned because he had heavy bags
   of gold round his waist, while trying to swim ashore from the
   wreck, it was an open question which possest which. Just so I
   am quite convinced that men stuffed with information or “the
   science of the day” are not always possest of true wisdom.
   Wisdom itself, anyhow, is not an end but a tool to work with.

    (2408)


   =Possessions=--See AMBITION.


                       POSSESSIONS, UNDESIRABLE

   “The regular practise of the Christian is exceptional with the
   world,” says a writer in the _Pacific Monthly_.

   “Out in Kansas when the bottom dropt out of the great boom in
   real estate some years ago, men found it harder to get rid of
   property than to acquire it. A lawyer going through the country
   one day met an old friend leading a reluctant cow toward town.
   Inquiry brought out the information that the cow had been
   secured in exchange for a city lot. ‘And do you know,’ said the
   new owner of the bovine, ‘that I turned a neat trick on the old
   granger! He can’t read a word, and in the deed I worked off two
   lots on him instead of one.’”

    (2409)


                         POSSIBILITIES, LATENT

   The diamond unworn is still a diamond. And the power unused is
   not therefore less real, or less majestic. What men do, is by
   no means the measure of what they might do, if they used with a
   rational energy their powers.--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (2410)


   =Posthumous Blessing=--See REVENGE, A CHRISTIAN’S.


                       POST-MORTEM CONSEQUENCES

   The start of tuberculosis in France in a serious sense may be
   traced to the great importance of mummies and mummy-cases at the
   time of the Napoleonic invasion of Egypt, and this start gave
   the disease its first great foothold in Europe, whence it has
   spread all over the Eastern world and throughout the Western
   hemisphere as well. Dead bodies preserved in the manner peculiar
   to the Egyptians of the time of the Pharaohs are undoubtedly
   favorite lodging-places for the tubercular bacilli. (Text.)

    (2411)


                                POVERTY

This letter was left by Miss Alice Law, aged 26, an editor employed
by a local publishing firm in Chicago, who committed suicide by
asphyxiation:

   I am ending my life because I am seized with an acute
   disinclination to live, and I believe I have an absolute right
   to end my life if I wish. The struggle is too hard. There is too
   much work, too much monotony, too much weariness and not enough
   art, music, recreation and rest.

   I am to change it. I am in my right mind. My reasoning powers
   are as good as ever. I go because I want to. The chief reason is
   because I am too near starved. Let the State pay my expenses.
   If I were blind, crippled or had an incurable disease the State
   would be obliged to take care of me. So I think I will take
   advantage of my rights and be buried at the public expense, as I
   have no money to defray the putting of me under ground.

   The prices charged for a casket and burial are too exorbitant
   for persons in moderate circumstances. It just keeps the family
   in bankruptcy for a year. This condition is outrageous, and I
   do not want this injustice in my case.

Doubtless Christianity has achieved much, but in the light of such a
revelation of suffering and despair, under conditions of modern life,
there would seem yet much to do.

    (2412)

       *       *       *       *       *

At a dinner given in honor of Mr. Carnegie by the surviving members of
the United States Military Telegraph Corps of the Civil War, he said:

   Comrades, I was born in poverty, and would not exchange its
   sacred memories with the richest millionaire’s son who ever
   breathed. What does he know about mother or father? These are
   mere names to him. Give me the life of the boy whose mother is
   nurse, seamstress, washerwoman, cook, teacher, angel, and saint,
   all in one, and whose father is guide, exemplar, and friend. No
   servants to come between. These are the boys who are born to the
   best fortune. Some men think that poverty is a dreadful burden,
   and that wealth leads to happiness. What do they know about it?
   They know only one side; they imagine the other. I have lived
   both, and I know there is very little in wealth that can add to
   human happiness beyond the small comforts of life. Millionaires
   who laugh are very rare. My experience is that wealth is apt to
   take the smiles away. (Text.)

    (2413)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The reason the Yankees are smart is because they have to wrest
   a precarious subsistence from a reluctant soil. “What shall I
   do to make my son get forward in the world?” asked an English
   lord of a bishop. “Give him poverty and parts.” Well, that’s
   the reason the sons of the Pilgrims have all got on in the
   world.--JOHN R. PAXTON.

    (2414)


   =Poverty as a Stimulus=--See COMPENSATION IN TRIALS.


                          POVERTY, CHRISTIAN

   When before in history was there such an inexpensive order of
   preachers as these early helpers of Wesley? They laid up much
   treasure in heaven, but had very empty pockets on earth. One
   of them, John Lane, died at Epworth. His entire wardrobe was
   insufficient to pay his funeral expenses, which amounted to £1
   17s. 3d. All the money he possest was 1s. 4d., “enough,” records
   Wesley briefly, “for any unmarried preacher of the gospel to
   leave to his executors.” (Text.)--W. H. FITCHETT,
   “Wesley and His Century.”

    (2415)


                   POVERTY, EARLY, OF UNITED STATES

The present great wealth of this country forms a striking contrast to
the facts given below:

   So low were the funds in the public treasury of the United
   States at the close of 1789 that the Attorney-General and
   several Congressmen were indebted to the private credit of
   Alexander Hamilton, their Secretary of State, to discharge
   their personal expenses. President Washington was obliged to
   pass a note to Tobias Leer, his private secretary, to meet his
   household expenses, the note being discounted at the rate of
   two per cent per month, and members of Congress were paid in
   due-bills.

    (2416)


   =Poverty to Wealth=--See AMERICAN OPPORTUNITY.


   =Power by Faith=--See FAITH AND POWER.


                           POWER CONTROLLED

These verses on the locomotive are from the New York _Christian
Advocate_:

    Steed, with the heart of fire! Steed, with the sinews of steel!
    Full-blooded courser, careering onward, with rail and with wheel;
    Black with fuliginous breathing--panting of wo and of weal.

    Firm be his muscle who mounts thee, clear and true be his eye;
    Generous his heart with compassion, willing if need be to die,
    Who sets thy hot blood a-dancing, and forces thy clarion cry!

    For he reins a mightier stallion--a swifter creature of awe,
    Stronger and darker and wilder than the old Arabian saw--
    His neck clothed with the thunder, and ravin and rage his law!

    Like a planet out of its orbit he moves when he leaps his rail:
    Hold him and guide him, O rider! thy purpose he will not fail;
    But loose him, and man lies groaning, and women and children wail.

    O mighty creature of commerce! That bringest the world its bread,
    And bearest the journeying peoples with limbs of thunder and dread,
    To thee my life is committed, and safely let me be sped!

    Thou steed of fire and of iron, that bearest me on my way,
    Is life or death in thy destined course, is rapture or sorrow--say?
    O Christ of God, hold the driving-rod, and mount this steed to-day!

    (2417)


   =Power from God=--See SPRINGS FROM GOD.


                       POWER IN SELF-REPRESSION

Says a recent journal:

   Many years ago, in the lecture-room of President Woolsey,
   of Yale University, a young man who did not know his lesson
   ventured to make a mock recitation and to give an impertinent
   answer. The president was a man of fiery temper, tho it had been
   curbed and subdued by the discipline of years. On this occasion
   his face turned white; he bowed his head upon the desk before
   him. There was a half-minute’s silence of death; he raised his
   head, called upon another man, and the recitation went on. He
   knew that if he spoke to the offender he would speak too much,
   so he said nothing.

   The students of that class knew well what a lava-flood was
   penned up there. Self-repression did not seem to them a sign of
   weakness--it was the greatest evidence of power.

   Shall we call it a sign of weakness in God that he bears with
   the sins of men? When God humbles himself to behold and to
   forbear, shall we not see in this voluntary self-limitation one
   of the proofs of his greatness? (Text.)

    (2418)


                           POWER, SUSPENDED

   In the early spring of 1848 occurred a natural phenomenon so
   strange, so sudden, and so stupendous that the older inhabitants
   of western New York still speak of it with awe and wonder. This
   phenomenon was nothing less than the running dry of Niagara
   Falls.

   The winter of 1847 and 1848 had been one of extreme severity.
   Ice of such thickness had never been known as formed on Lake
   Erie that season. When the break-up came, toward the end of
   March, a strong northeast wind was blowing, which piled the
   great fields of ice in floes, and then in banks as high as
   miniature icebergs. Toward night on March 30 the wind suddenly
   changed to the opposite direction and increased to a terrific
   gale, which hurled back the piled-up ice and drove it into
   the entrance of Niagara River with such force that a huge and
   almost impenetrable dam was formed. For a whole day the source
   of the river was stopt up, and the stream was drained of its
   supply. By the morning of the 31st the river was practically
   dry, and thus for twenty-four hours the roar of Niagara Falls
   was stilled. Then in the early morning of April 1, the ice-pack
   gave way under the tremendous pressure from above, and the
   long-restrained volume of water rushed down and reclaimed its
   own.

    (2419)


                     POWER THROUGH UNION WITH GOD

It is only when we link ourselves with the power that lifts that we can
accomplish results which are beyond our strength.

   A great weight was to be lifted a little way out from the shore.
   Vain efforts had been made to bring it to the surface. Great
   chains had been wrapt about the mass and stout steam-tugs had
   puffed and strained without avail, and engines from the shore
   had exerted all their power with no result. A young man offered
   to raise the weight and he was told to try. A great flat barge
   was towed out over the sunken hulk, about which chains had been
   passed, and these were fastened to the barge. When the tide was
   out, the chains were wrapt still closer; then the young man sat
   down and waited. In the night the tide came in and the barge
   rose steadily with the incoming tide, bringing with it the
   burden to which it was chained. Higher and higher it rose, till
   at last it was out of the mud and mire. The seemingly impossible
   had been accomplished by linking the obstacle to the power of
   the tide. (Text.)

    (2420)


                             POWER WITHIN

Men and churches often wait for outside help to draw them along. They
need the lesson taught in this anecdote:

   When an engineer in Bolivia brought over the Cordilleras the
   first locomotive ever seen in these latitudes, the native
   Indians came up from the Amazon basin to see this sight, and sat
   on their haunches discussing what this strange monster could be.
   They said: “It is made to go; let’s make it go”; and so they
   lassoed the buffers, and about thirty of them began to pull, and
   drew the locomotive a few yards. They exclaimed, “Ay-ay-ay-ay
   Tatai Tatito.” “The great and little father hath enabled us to
   do something wonderful!”

   The next day the engineer got up steam and hitched a couple
   of cattle trucks to the locomotive and, when the Indians came
   again, put them into the trucks and locked them in. Then he
   stood on the fire-plate of the locomotive and opened the
   regulator, and let the steam into the cylinder, and it began to
   move the piston, and the piston the crank, and the crank the
   wheel, and the wheel the locomotive; and the locomotive carried
   the Indians along ten miles an hour! What did they not say to
   their “great and little father!” But they learned this great
   lesson--that locomotives are not made to be moved along by
   outside human power, but by means of a power within, and so to
   carry human beings along.

    (2421)


   =Practicable and Impracticable=--See PREDICTION, FALSE.


                 PRACTICAL RESPONSES CLARIFY CONFUSION

   The acquisition of definiteness and of coherency (or constancy)
   of meanings is derived primarily from practical activities. By
   rolling an object, the child makes its roundness appreciable; by
   bouncing it, he singles out its elasticity; by throwing it, he
   makes weight its conspicuous distinctive factor. Not through the
   senses, but by means of the reaction, the responsive adjustment,
   is the impression made distinctive, and given a character
   marked off from other qualities that call out unlike reactions.
   Children, for example, are usually quite slow in apprehending
   differences of color. Differences from the standpoint of the
   adult so glaring that it is impossible not to note them are
   recognized and recalled with great difficulty. Doubtless they do
   not all feel alike, but there is no intellectual recognition of
   what makes the difference. The redness or greenness or blueness
   of the object does not tend to call out a reaction that is
   sufficiently peculiar to give prominence or distinction to the
   color trait. Gradually, however, certain characteristic habitual
   responses associate themselves with certain things; the white
   becomes the sign, say, of milk and sugar to which the child
   reacts favorably; blue becomes the sign of a dress that the
   child likes to wear, and so on, and the distinctive reactions
   tend to single out color qualities from other things in which
   they had been submerged.--JOHN DEWEY, “How We Think.”

    (2422)


                            PRACTICAL, THE

According to Mr. Bliss Perry, the greatest idealists are the most
practical workers:

   Take those men of the transcendental epoch, whose individuality
   has been fortunately transmitted to us through our literature.
   They were in love with life, enraptured of its opportunities
   and possibilities. No matter to what task a man set his hand,
   he could gain a livelihood without loss of self-respect or the
   respect of the community. Let him try teaching school, Emerson
   would advise; let him farm it a while, drive a tin-pedler’s
   cart for a season or two, keep store, go to Congress, live
   the “experimental life.” Emerson himself could muse upon the
   oversoul, but he also raised the best Baldwin apples and
   Bartlett pears in Concord, and got the highest current prices
   for them in the Boston market. His friend Thoreau supported
   himself by making sandpaper or lead-pencils, by surveying
   farms or by hoeing that immortal patch of beans; his true
   vocation being steadily that of the philosopher, the seeker.
   (Text.)--_Atlantic Monthly._

    (2423)


                               PRACTISE

   No man ever yet learned by having somebody else learn for him.
   A man learns arithmetic by blunder in and blunder out, but at
   last he gets it. A man learns to write through scrawling; a man
   learns to swim by going into the water, and a man learns to vote
   by voting.--HENRY WARD BEECHER.

    (2424)

   “Did you know this telephone business has resulted in a
   telephone ear?” said a clerk whose work called him constantly
   to the telephone, according to _The Tribune_, New York.
   “I don’t mean that our hearing is injured, but that the left
   ear becomes more keen than the right. If you’ll notice, all the
   telephones are left-handed. That is, the instruments are so
   placed that we hold the receiver with the left hand, so that we
   may have the right hand free to use in taking notes of messages,
   I presume. Of course, one naturally claps the receiver to his
   left ear, as it would be almost impossible to twist it around
   to his right ear. Consequently, the left ear gradually becomes
   much sharper in catching sounds than the right ear. If you don’t
   believe it, just try holding the receiver in your right hand
   some time and use your right ear. You’ll find that conversation
   which was perfectly distinct to the left ear sounds confused
   and muffled to the right, and there is a distinct effort
   to understand. It is simply that the left ear is a trained
   telephone ear, while the right ear is not.” (Text.)

    (2425)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Rubenstein--that thunderer of the keyboard--is credited with the
   following dictum: “If I do not practise for a day I know it; if
   I miss two days my friends know it; and if I miss three days the
   public knows it.” (Text.)

    (2426)


                   PRACTISE AND INDUSTRIAL TRAINING

   Many children outside of the Sunday-school will learn the
   Bible from Christian parents or will study it for themselves;
   but there is no way, so far as I can conceive, of learning
   the industrial work of the church except in some such
   training-school as the young people’s society furnishes. For
   this work can be learned only by doing it. It can not be taught
   by text-books, or imparted by instruction. Like every other
   kind of industrial training, it must be gained by practise. The
   carpenter learns to build a house with saw and hammer and nails
   in hand, not by reading an elaborate treatise on housebuilding.
   The painter takes his easel and brush, and practises long
   and patiently, if he would be an artist; there is no other
   way. It is exactly the same with the necessary activities of
   church life. If the church is worth sustaining, if its work is
   to be done in the future, if we are to have prayer-meetings
   and missionary activities and an earnest religious life,
   if the Church is to be a power for good citizenship and
   righteous living, it must have some such industrial
   training-school.--FRANCIS E. CLARK, “Proceedings of the
   Religious Education Association,” 1903.

    (2427)


                          PRACTISE, GRADUATED

   In drilling recruits for the Chinese army, each man is required
   to carry sand in his knapsack. For the first day he carries
   two ounces; on each succeeding day he increases this amount
   two ounces, until at last he is carrying sixteen pounds.
   These men can run at a dog-trot for ten consecutive hours
   and arrive at the end of that time in a fit condition for
   fighting.--MARSHALL P. WILDER, “Smiling ’Round the
   World.”

    (2428)


   =Practising What They Preach=--See EVIL, SELF-DESTRUCTIVE.


                                PRAISE

Ruby T. Weyburn, in _The Youth’s Companion_, gives this fanciful
origin of the music of praise:

    The Jews have an old tradition that when the world was done,
    And God from His work was resting, He called to Him, one by one,
    The shining troops of the angels, and showing the wonder wrought,
    The Master asked of His servants what they of the vision thought.

    Then one white angel, dreaming o’er the marvel before him spread,
    Bent low in humble obeisance, lifted his voice, and said:
    “One thing only is lacking--praise from the new-born tongue,
    The sound of a hallelujah by the great creation sung.”

    So God created music--the voices of land and sea,
    And the song of the stars revolving in one vast harmony.
    Out of the deep uprising, out from the ether sent,
    The song of the destined ages thrilled through the firmament.

    So the rivers among the valleys, the murmur of wind-swept hill,
    The seas and the bird-thrilled woodlands utter their voices still;
    Songs of stars and of waters, echoes of vale and shore--
    The voice of primeval nature praising Him evermore.

    And the instruments men have fashioned since time and the world
      were young,
    With gifted fingers giving the metal and wood a tongue,
    With the human voice translating the soul’s wild joy and pain,
    Have swelled the undying paean, have raised the immortal strain!

    (2429)

       *       *       *       *       *

Perhaps in nothing connected with religious practise are opportunities
more neglected than with regard to the praise of God. Multitudes who
receive the bounties of Providence know nothing of the emotion of
gratitude, and many awaken too late to a sense of their own ingratitude.

   Billy Bray, the Cornish preacher, was a constant visitor among
   the sick and dying. On one occasion he was sitting by the
   bedside of a Christian brother who had always been very reticent
   and afraid to confess joyously his faith in Christ. Now,
   however, he was filled with gladness. Turning to Billy, whose
   beaming face and sunny words had done much to produce this joy,
   he said, “Oh, Mr. Bray, I am so happy that if I had the power
   I’d shout ‘Glory.’” “Ah, mon,” said Billy, “what a pity it was
   thee didn’t shout ‘Glory’ when thee hadst the power.” (Text.)

    (2430)

   See THANKSGIVING.


                      PRAISE DEPENDENT ON SUCCESS

Toward the close of his second administration, Grant thus reviewed, in
a private conversation with Henry Clay Trumbull, the criticisms of his
public career:

   I don’t wonder that people differ with me, and that they think
   I am not doing the best that could be done. I can understand
   how they may blame me for a lack of knowledge or judgment.
   But what hurts me is to have them talk as if I didn’t love my
   country and wasn’t doing the best I knew how. It was just that
   way in war-time. I didn’t do as well as might have been done.
   A great many times I didn’t do as well as I was trying to do.
   Often I didn’t do as well as I expected to do. But I had my
   plans and was trying to carry them out. They called me “fool”
   and “butcher.” They said I didn’t know anything and hadn’t
   any plans. But I kept on and kept on, and by and by Richmond
   was taken, and I was at Appomattox Court House, and then they
   couldn’t find words enough to praise me. I suppose it will be
   so now. In spite of mistakes and failures I shall keep at it.
   By and by we’ll have specie payments resumed, reconstruction
   will be complete, good feeling will be restored between North
   and South; we shall be at Appomattox again, and then I suppose
   they’ll praise me.

    (2431)


   =Praise Helpful=--See ENCOURAGEMENT.


   =Praise, Judicious=--See HEART-HUNGER, SATISFYING.


                            PRAISE, SEEKING

   A delicate woman, without children, and married to a superior
   but occupied and preoccupied man, suffered intensely when her
   husband neither perceived nor commented upon a new costume, or
   upon some ornament she had added to the drawing-room. Never a
   word of praise escaped his lips. One day she told him the sorrow
   this caused her. “But what do you want?” he replied, distrest.
   “I don’t know how to observe such things. What must I do?”

   The wife reflected a moment, and then the two arranged that when
   there was anything unusual the wife was to make him a certain
   sign. His attention called, he would then understand, look, and
   admire. “And now I am satisfied,” she said, a little ashamed of
   her childishness. “What he says will not be spontaneous, I know,
   and yet I shall be pleased to hear it; it will brighten my life.”

   This absurd, and yet touching incident reveals a state of
   mind that certain natures can not understand, but which
   is, nevertheless, more common than we think.--DORA
   MELEGARI, “Makers of Sorrow and Makers of Joy.”

    (2432)


                          PRAISE-SPIRIT, THE

When Epictetus was a boy and a slave his angry master twisted his leg
in an instrument of torture until it broke.

   “Do you think,” he says after he has worked out his philosophy
   of contentment, “that because my soul happens to have one little
   lame leg I am to find fault with God’s universe? Ought we not
   when we dig, and when we plow, and when we eat, to sing this
   hymn to God, because He hath given us these implements whereby
   we may till the soil? Great is God because He hath given us
   hands, and the means of nourishment and food; and insensible
   growth, and breathing sleep; these things we ought to hymn,
   because He hath given us the power to appreciate these blessings
   and continuously to use them. And, since the most of you are
   blinded, ought there not to be one to fulfil this song for you,
   and on behalf of all to sing a hymn of happiness to God? And
   what else can I do, who am a lame old man, except sing praises
   to God?”

   This was the epitaph given him: “Epictetus, a slave maimed in
   body, a beggar through poverty, and dear unto the immortals.”
   (Text.)

    (2433)


                            PRAISE, TIMELY

Mrs. Marion Hutson indicates in this verse the desirability of praising
the worthy while they are alive to appreciate it:

    Sometime in the future--God knows where--
    This troubled heart will find surcease of care,
    And then--when consciousness has left my breast,
    And angel lips have kissed my own to rest,
    It will not matter what the world has said.
    Nor praise, nor censure can affect the dead.
    But now? As balm of Gilead to me
    A little word of praise or cheer would be.

    (2434)


                            PRAISE, UNITED

   The British Government at great cost is causing the national
   anthem to be translated into the languages of India, including
   Arabic, Persian, Hindustani, Bengali, Sanskrit, Hebrew,
   Kavarese, Marathi, Gugerati, Tunjabi, Malay, Taniel, Tilugu,
   Singhalese and Burmese, so that the natives in their jungles may
   unite in “God Save the King” on all important occasions.

We have a greater spectacle described in Rev. 5:9–13, where the unity
of praise includes all the tongues and nations of the earth.

    (2435)


                          PRAISE, UNNECESSARY

An interesting story in regard to General Miles comes from a recent
encampment of the Grand Army at San Francisco, and is published in
_The Saturday Evening Post_. The General, while being entertained
at a club, was rallied good-humoredly by an old-time comrade for his
failure to win a laudatory “send-off” in his retirement papers.

   “In reply to that,” remarked General Miles, “let me tell a
   story. The application may seem a trifle egotistical, but as the
   story is a good one, I’ll venture it.

   “In the early days of the West an itinerant preacher, stopping
   for refreshment one day at the pioneer home of one of his
   parishioners, was served, among other things, with apple-pie.
   It was not a good pie. The crust was heavy and sour, but the
   encomiums which that preacher heaped upon it were great. The
   good wife knew that she had had bad luck with the baking, and as
   she was in reality an excellent cook, she determined that the
   next time that preacher came her way he should have a pie that
   was faultless.

   “He told her when he was to return, and on that day she set
   before him an apple-pie that was the real thing. He ate it, but
   to her astonishment vouchsafed not a word of commendation. This
   was more than the housewife would stand.

   “‘Brother,’ she exclaimed, ‘when you were here last you ate an
   apple-pie that wasn’t more than half-baked, and you praised it
   to the skies. Now you have eaten a pie that nobody needs to be
   ashamed of, but you haven’t a word to say in its favor. I can’t
   understand it.’

   “‘My good sister,’ replied the preacher, ‘that pie you served me
   a few days ago was sadly in need of praise, and I did my full
   duty in that direction; but this fine pie, bless your heart,
   does not require any eulogy.’”

    (2436)


   =Praising Rival=--See SELF-ESTIMATE.


                                PRAYER

Many prayers that fail would be answered if means were used by the
petitioner like those employed by Paul Kruger, the former president of
the South African Republic.

   At one time, when game was very scarce, he went with a party to
   hunt the hartbeest. They scoured the veld for days without a
   sign for their prey. Paul Kruger announced then his purpose of
   going into the hills to pray for food, like a patriarch of old.

   He was gone for a number of hours. When he returned he announced
   that in three days a large herd would pass that way. The party
   camped. In less than the appointed time the prophecy was
   fulfilled, and much game was secured. The Boer hunters were much
   struck with wonder, and dubbed Kruger “the man of prayer.”

   Some time after, the Kafir who accompanied Kruger on his
   expedition of petition told the truth of the affair. Kruger,
   when he left the hunting party, had struck out for a neighboring
   Kafir kraal, and informed the natives that his men were
   starving. If they, the natives, did not discover game in three
   days, he said, he would bring his whole party over the hill and
   kill every Kafir. The natives, being sore afraid of the Boer
   methods, all turned out, scoured the region, and drove the game
   to the Boer camp. Thus Kruger’s “prayer” was answered.

    (2437)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Stonewall Jackson never failed to invoke the Prince of Peace to
   preside over his battles. Old Jim, his faithful servant, said:

   “De gen’al is de greates’ man fo’ prayin’ night an’ mornin’ an’
   all times. But when I sees him git up sev’al times in de night,
   besides, an’ start in prayin’, I knows dar’s gwine ter be semp’n
   up, an’ I go straight an’ pack his haversack, ca’se I know he’ll
   be callin’ for it ’fo’ daylight.”--_The Sunday Magazine._

    (2438)

       *       *       *       *       *

The tenor of Scripture is that if we are in tune with the divine mind,
and so are receptive of the secret whispers and suggestions of the
Spirit of God, then that Spirit will first inspire in us the prayers
which our Heavenly Father can consistently answer.

   Every prayer is a transaction with order. You go home with a
   packet of seeds for your little girl, and you take her out, and
   say: “This little plot shall be yours. Whatever comes of this
   packet of seeds shall be yours.” Now, what can come of a penny
   packet of seeds in all this infinite universe, with stars and
   systems whirling round? Beauty can come of it! Life can come of
   it! Why? Because your little gardener is transacting with order.
   She is dealing with law, and law will deal with her, and out of
   the seed she sows there shall come beauty to gladden her. When
   she kneels an hour or two later, and breathes forth from a pure
   heart a prayer to the eternal God for blessing upon herself and
   you, will you say, “What good can come of it?” Good can come of
   it! Good must come of it! She comes to where law rules, where
   right is triumphant. Prayer is not a dip into a lucky bag. It is
   dealing with eternal law. (Text.)

    (2439)

   See EARTH, CRY OF; FAITH AND PRAYER; PREJUDICE DISARMED.


   =Prayer, A Child’s=--See CHILDREN’S RELIGIOUS IDEAS.


                            PRAYER AND DEED

   A farmer whose barns were full of corn, was accustomed to pray
   that the wants of the needy might be supplied; but when any one
   in needy circumstances asked for a little of his corn, he said
   he had none to spare. One day, after hearing his father pray
   for the poor and needy, his little son said to him, “Father,
   I wish I had your corn.” “Why, my son, what would you do with
   it?” asked the father. The child replied, “I would answer your
   prayers.”

    (2440)


                           PRAYER AND EFFORT

   A pastor tells of a man who had been caught on the river in
   a sudden break-up of the ice, and who himself expected to be
   drowned, and whose neighbors had given him up as lost. The man
   had thrown himself on his knees on one of the pieces of ice, and
   was engaged in what he supposed was his last prayer on earth,
   when his friends on shore noticed that the pieces of ice had
   readjusted themselves so as to make a safe way from where he was
   kneeling to the land. They lifted their voices and shouted to
   the poor man to stop praying and run to the shore. He opened
   his eyes, saw his opportunity and was saved. Prayer and deeds
   must go hand in hand.

    (2441)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Governor William E. Russell, of Massachusetts, who died at the
   age of thirty-nine, but had in that short life been mayor of his
   city and governor of his State, and had gained national fame,
   early began to think and act right. As a schoolboy, when boating
   with five companions, his craft was overturned and he swam a
   mile to shore. Asked by his mother about his struggle to reach
   land, he said, “I thought of you, prayed to God, and kept my
   arms and legs in stroke.” (Text.)

    (2442)


   =Prayer and Guides=--See BLESSING THE ROPES.


                          PRAYER AND THE BODY

   In the shadow, unseen, keeping watch above his own, is the
   genius of the inventor. The earth gives iron, the sheep give
   their wool, the soil gives the dyes, the steel gives the
   shuttles, the spinner gives his fingers, but Arkwright and
   Jenner explain the warm cloth against the snow and chill of
   winter. Nature is a loom, the days and the nights are shuttles,
   the sunbeams tint the texture, forests and mines, herds and
   flocks furnish the threads, and the cloth of purple and gold
   is brilliant with towns and cities--but God is the weaver of
   the web. And if man with higher laws can set aside lower ones,
   if man with an X-ray can make the body transparent, think you
   that the great God by His influence upon man’s intellect and
   imagination can not start influences spiritual that will soon
   manifest themselves through man’s body upon forces that are
   physical? If man were spirit, and spirit alone, prayer could not
   be answered in a physical realm, because there would be no point
   of connection between a spiritual being and a physical universe.
   But man’s body is the medium of communication, and the God of
   spirit moving upon the spirit of man acts through the body of
   inventor, scientist, surgeon, sower, reaper, nurse, teacher,
   statesman, and plays upon these delicate strings called the
   forces of nature and so answers prayer.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2443)


                            PRAYER ANSWERED

   A penitentiary convict had been converted, and was released
   from prison in Chicago. He found it impossible to get work. He
   woke in the night, and arose and prayed for help. He prayed
   till daylight, crying in agony, “Oh, God, give a poor fellow
   a chance!” Then he drest and went out again to hunt work.
   Presently he heard a cry and saw a runaway horse coming down
   toward him. He snatched up a cracker-box and smashed it on the
   horse’s face. Then he seized the bridle and stopt him, tho he
   was dragged some distance; and in the crowd gathering about him
   was the father of the children in the carriage, and he was the
   man God sent to “give the poor fellow a chance.”--FRANKLIN
   NOBLE, “Sermons in Illustration.”

    (2444)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Those who wait on the Lord shall renew their strength. How many
   of us really expect an answer to our prayers? How many of us
   wait for God as they who wait on the morning? Yet it is this
   expectant attitude of the soul resting upon the divine promise
   that triumphs over hindrances. There is an example of this in
   the life of Charles Kingsley. When a young man, he had become
   engaged to a beautiful girl to whom he had given his whole love.
   But her parents deemed him an unsuitable match, and they forbade
   absolutely all communication between the two young people for
   two years, which were to Kingsley the darkest and most terrible
   in his life. But in his diary he tells us that during that
   period he lived on one verse, Mark 11:24, “Therefore I say unto
   you what things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that
   ye receive them, and ye shall have them.” Before the two years
   were over, Kingsley’s prayer was answered, and the girl became
   his wife.--DONALD SAGE MACKAY, “The Religion of the
   Threshold,” page 296.

    (2445)


                           PRAYER, AVAILING

   In the first parish where I labored lived a man who was not
   only agnostic in his attitude toward things religious, but even
   derided them, and was wont to chaff his wife on her devotion to
   her Church. The wife, however, went on her quiet but earnest
   way, living out her religion in the home. One morning very
   early the husband awoke and discovered his wife beside his bed
   absorbed in whispered prayer. Her pale, upturned face was fixt
   with intensity upon the Invisible, and her warm hand was resting
   upon his own, she supposing him to be asleep. As the husband’s
   eyes opened on the unexpected scene, the suggestion came like a
   flash to his soul, “My wife’s God is more real to her than her
   husband is. If she is so earnest for my welfare as to rise at
   such an hour and pray alone for me, it is time I had some care
   for my own soul”; and he instantly arose from his bed, knelt
   beside her and added his own prayer to hers. He gave his heart
   to God on the spot, and that very morning came to the early
   meeting at the church and announced his change of heart; the
   next Sabbath he united with the Church.--H. C. MABIE,
   “Methods in Evangelism.”

    (2446)


                        PRAYER BY GREAT LEADERS

The following is from _The Saturday Evening Post_:

   At the critical hours of American history when the noonday sky
   was midnight and the atmosphere saturated with murk--where do
   we find our great American leaders unable by human eyes to see
   before them? We find them, do we not? on their knees beseeching
   divine guidance and groping for a clasp of the Unseen Hand which
   would lead them and this people into the light again. The whole
   winter of the American troops at Valley Forge is an historical
   panorama of heroism, self-denial, and sacrifice. Yet every
   noble incident of that season of doom and dread furnishes but
   details of the background for the great central picture which
   the American mind loves to dwell upon--Washington on his knees
   at Valley Forge. It was Lincoln who in 1864 declared: “God bless
   the churches, and blest be God who in this hour giveth us the
   churches.” And Washington, in 1789, immediately after he was
   made the first President of the republic, wrote to the bishops
   of the Methodist Church:

   “I trust the people of every denomination will have occasion to
   be convinced that I shall always strive to prove a faithful and
   impartial patron of genuine, vital religion.... I take in the
   kindest part the promise you make of presenting your prayers
   at the throne of grace for me, and that I likewise implore the
   divine benediction on yourself and your religious community.”

    (2447)


                          PRAYER, CONVINCING

George W. Coleman, in his book “Searchlights,” says:

   One of my ministerial friends, who has resigned his pulpit
   because of his out-and-out socialistic views, naturally stirred
   up a good deal of angry opposition in some quarters, altho he
   has one of the sweetest characters I have ever known. Hateful
   and contemptuous things were said. There was much damning with
   faint praise, especially among former friends.

   A level-headed friend of mine, a woman of sixty years or
   thereabouts, heard something of the commotion, and, to satisfy
   her curiosity, dropt into the church one Sunday to hear for
   herself what the minister really had to say for his peculiar and
   unpopular views. When I met her soon afterward, her only comment
   was, “Well, I have only to say that a man who can pray like that
   can’t go very far wrong, whether its socialism or anything else.”

    (2448)


                        PRAYER FOR COMMON NEEDS

Mrs. Scranton, a missionary in Korea, writes in the Bible Society’s
_Reporter_ of a Korean Christian woman whose reply to a neighbor
was a beautiful testimony to her faithfulness in prayer:

   The neighbor said she could not pray--she had no time, and
   furthermore she had no skill with her lips. The Christian
   replied, “Am I not a busy woman, and yet I pray. When I get up
   in the morning I say, ‘My Heavenly Father, You have given me
   these garments with which I clothe my naked body. Without them I
   should be ashamed. Now please clothe my soul that it may never
   be ashamed or afraid.’ When I wash my face and hands I pray that
   I may be made clean inside as well as outside. I make the fire;
   and if I put on much wood it burns brightly, and I ask that the
   Holy Spirit may kindle just such a fire in my heart. Then I
   sweep the room and I say, ‘Please sweep away all the bad there
   is in and around me.’ When I cook the rice I pray that heavenly
   food may be given to my soul to keep it from starving to death.”
   Has not this woman learned the secret of prayer?

    (2449)


                           PRAYER FOR OTHERS

James Whitcomb Riley writes this altruistic prayer:

    Dear Lord, kind Lord,
      Gracious Lord, I pray
    Thou wilt look on all I love,
      Tenderly to-day!
    Weed their hearts of weariness
      Scatter every care
    Down a wake of angel-wings
      Winnowing the air.

    Bring unto the sorrowing
      All release from pain;
    Let the lips of laughter
      Overflow again;
    And with all the needy
      O divide, I pray,
    This vast treasure of content
      That is mine to-day! (Text.)

    --_The Reader Magazine._

    (2450)


   =Prayer for the Devil=--See READINESS IN RETORT.


                           PRAYER IN SECRET

   After I became interested in religion, in seeking a place
   for retirement for my secret devotions, I thought of a large
   closet out of the spare chamber. That closet was a place where
   my mother kept her blankets, comforters and various kinds
   of bed-clothes. It was large and without a window. When the
   door was shut it was total darkness; no eye but that of Him
   who “seeth in secret” could behold any one who there sought
   retirement from the world.

   In that closet I erected my altar for secret prayer. It was my
   Bethel; and none but God can ever know the Bethel seasons I
   there enjoyed in communing with the Savior in that time of my
   first love, and until I left my home to prepare for the work of
   the gospel ministry. (Text.)--ASA BULLARD, “Incidents
   in a Busy Life.”

    (2451)

   See SERVICE, UNSEEN.


                             PRAYER MEDIA

   The ether is the medium not only of light, electric and other
   force-vibrations, but of thought-vibrations also. The two
   souls at the ends of the two thousand miles of distance are
   something like two wireless telegraphic stations. One sends
   up its cry for help, its prayer-vibration, into the ether;
   the whole celestial hemisphere quivers with that cry, that
   soul-vibration. The soul of the friend at this end of the line,
   being sympathetic, or keyed in unison, picks out of the ether
   its own; it hears and reads the cry of the beloved soul yonder,
   and sends back, through the ether, its answer of comforting
   thought and suggestion. Now, grant that that sort of thing is
   a fact in human experience, and we have what is very nearly a
   demonstration of the possibility and nature of prayer. If two
   human souls can hear and answer each other irrespective of
   space and time, then the human soul and the divine soul can do
   likewise. We have only to think God immanent in the universal
   ether, filling it as a soul fills the body, and our case is
   complete.--JAMES H. ECOB.

    (2452)


   =Prayer-meeting Maintained=--See IMMIGRATION.


   =Prayer Only in Name=--See DIPLOMACY, COWARDLY.


   =Prayer, Power of=--See PERSECUTION AND PRAYER.


                        PRAYER, TAKING TIME FOR

   “One might as well rush into the street unclothed,” said Mr.
   Spurgeon, “because he had no time to dress, or into battle
   unarmed because he had no time to secure his weapons, as to go
   forth to the experiences of any day without taking time to pray.”

    (2453)


                          PRAYER, THE CALL TO

   The call to prayer heard from minarets five times daily in all
   Moslem lands is as follows: The muezzin cries it in a loud voice
   and always in the Arabic language: “God is most great! God is
   most great! God is most great! God is most great! I testify that
   there is no god but God! I testify that there is no god but God!
   I testify that Mohammed is the apostle of God! I testify that
   Mohammed is the apostle of God! Come to prayer! Come to prayer!
   Come to prosperity! Come to prosperity! God is most great! God
   is most great! There is no god but God!” In the call to early
   morning prayer the words “prayer is better than sleep” are added
   twice after the call to prosperity. (Text.)--SAMUEL M.
   ZWEMER, “The Moslem World.”

    (2454)


                           PRAYER, VIEWS OF

The Christian conception of prayer is “enter into thine inner chamber
and having shut thy door, pray to thy Father, who is in secret, and thy
Father who seeth in secret shall recompense thee.”

   With the Moslems the first requirement of correct prayer is
   that it be in the right direction; that is, toward the Kaaba at
   Mecca. Because of this, private houses, as well as mosques,
   all over the Mohammedan world, are built accordingly, and not
   on meridian lines. It is often pathetic to hear a wayfarer
   or a Moslem who travels on an ocean steamer ask which is the
   proper direction to turn at the hour of prayer. To pray with
   one’s back to Mecca would be unpardonable. Many Moslems carry a
   pocket-compass on their journeys to avoid all possible errors of
   this character. (Text.)--SAMUEL M. ZWEMER, “The Moslem
   World.”

    (2455)


                                PRAYERS

Mr. Keppel in his book “Christmas in Art,” tells this story:

   I remember a touching little incident which occurred in New
   York. My dear old mother, who was a Methodist, had died, and our
   kindly Irish cook prayed twice daily for the repose of the old
   woman’s soul. A Catholic friend of the cook’s told her that it
   was wrong to pray for a deceased heretic, and the cook carried
   the question to her father-confessor. The good priest’s decision
   was in this wise: “My daughter, I can not tell you whether such
   prayers can do good to the soul of a deceased heretic--but your
   prayers will certainly do good to your own soul.”

    (2456)


   =Prayers Unanswered=--See FAITH, STEADFAST.


                               PREACHING

   Whitefield was just twenty-one when he received deacon’s orders,
   and he at once leapt into fame as a preacher. “I intended to
   make 150 sermons,” he says, “and thought I would set up with
   a good stock-in-trade.” As a matter of fact, this greatest of
   English preachers only possest a single sermon when he began his
   preaching career. In his humility he put his first and solitary
   discourse into the hands of a friendly clergyman, to show how
   unprepared for the work of the pulpit he was. The clergyman
   used one-half of the sermon at his morning service, and the
   other half at his evening service, and returned it to its
   astonished author with a guinea by way of payment.--W. H.
   FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (2457)

   See CONSECRATION; EDUCATION TO BE PRIZED; SPEECH, COMMON.


   =Preaching, Call To=--See INFLUENCE, INDIVIDUAL.


                           PREACHING CHRIST

   Some man went to hear Spurgeon preach one day, and when he came
   back to his friend’s house, his friend asked him: “What do you
   think of Spurgeon?” He replied: “Nothing at all.” The friend in
   amazement repeated his question, and again the answer was: “I
   do not think anything of him at all,” and then he brushed away
   some moisture in his eyes and added: “But I never can forget his
   Savior.”--CORTLAND MYERS.

    (2458)


   =Preaching, Fearless=--See FITNESS.


                       PREACHING FROM MANUSCRIPT

   One year I invited the pastor of a great church in Cincinnati,
   and he came, and he spoke on Sunday morning. He pulled out a
   forty-page manuscript and stood there and read the gospel for
   a whole hour, and those good country people never saw it done
   before, and when they adjourned for dinner they got under the
   trees and talked about the proceedings. They said, “What do you
   think of that letter from Cincinnati?” And I never see a fellow
   pull his manuscript now that I don’t wonder where that letter is
   from.--“Popular Lectures of Sam P. Jones.”

    (2459)


                           PREACHING, GOSPEL

   I have seen an advertisement reading thus: “If the druggist
   says, ‘We haven’t Brown’s soap, but here is something just
   as good,’ don’t take it! Go somewhere else.” The Church is
   in business, and Church attendance is controlled by business
   principles. The man who drops in wants the gospel, nothing else
   will answer, and he can not be expected to continue dropping in
   unless he gets it.--DAVID JAMES BURRELL.

    (2460)


   =Preaching Occasions=--See OPPORTUNITIES IMPROVED.


                     PREACHING, RESPONSIBILITY IN

   Those who have inadequate views of their responsibility in
   preparing to preach the gospel ought to be impressively reminded
   of their failure in this respect, as was a moderate minister,
   who was a keen fisher, when he said to Dr. Andrew Thompson: “I
   wonder you spend so much time on your sermons, with your ability
   and ready speech. Many’s the time I’ve written a sermon and
   killed a salmon before breakfast.” To which saying Dr. Thompson
   replied, “Well, sir, I’d rather have eaten your salmon than
   listened to your sermon.”

    (2461)


   =Preaching, Roosevelt’s=--See SPEAKING TO DO GOOD.


   =Preaching Spoiled=--See SYMPATHY, LACK OF.


                          PREACHING THE WORD

   When Dr. Cuyler, of Brooklyn, died, the Sunday-school
   remembered that he used to come in every now and then during
   the years of his history, and repeat just a single verse from
   the superintendent’s desk; and the next Lord’s Day after the
   funeral, they marched up in front of it in a long line, and each
   scholar quoted any of the texts that he could recollect. The
   grown people wept as they saw how much there was of the Bible in
   the hearts of their children, which this one pastor had planted.
   Yet he was a very timid and old-fashioned man; he said he had no
   gift at talking to children; he could only repeat God’s Word. If
   preachers and teachers would follow such a simple example, what
   a power there would be in their ministrations. (Text.)

    (2462)


                              PRECAUTION

   A California vine-grower, in a region where once in a
   great while the temperature fell a few degrees below the
   freezing-point, thus endangering his crop, rigged up an
   electric-alarm system which signalled to him when the
   temperature out in the fields had fallen low enough to require
   the lighting of fires to prevent frost. A neighbor, more fond of
   his ease, immediately improved on this apparatus. He fixt his
   brushwood ready for firing, and then arranged his electrical
   apparatus so that when the temperature fell to thirty-two
   degrees a current should be sent through a platinum wire in some
   fine combustibles and light the fires, instead of signaling him
   to do the work himself. The apparatus is cheap and more reliable
   than hired men, so that it is likely to be adopted in the parts
   of the state exposed to inopportune frosts.--Philadelphia
   _Ledger_.

    (2463)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Justice Willes about 1780 sentenced a boy at Lancaster to be
   hanged, with the hope of reforming him by frightening him, and
   he ordered him for execution next morning. The judge awoke in
   the middle of the night, and was so affected by the notion that
   he might himself die in the course of the night, and the boy
   be hanged, tho he did mean that he should suffer, that he got
   out of his bed and went to the lodgings of the high sheriff,
   and left a reprieve for the boy, or what was to be considered
   equivalent to it, and then, returning to his bed, spent the
   rest of the night comfortably. (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES,
   “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (2464)


                              PRECAUTIONS

   The day when an engineer could drive his train ahead at full
   speed, at his own discretion, and make up as much lost time
   as the recklessness of his daring permitted, has passed with
   the romantic age of railroading. No longer does he gamble thus
   with death to win back minutes. A cool-nerved human machine
   sits in an office miles away and tells him exactly how fast he
   may go. Mute signals stretch out their arms to him by day or
   glow red-eyed at night along the track and halt him if he rides
   too fast or if there is danger ahead. At intervals of from a
   thousand feet to five miles there are towers with men in them
   who note the minute and second of his passing, and telegraph it
   forward and back over the line. Nowadays the engineer is rarely
   out of touch with possible orders for more than a few minutes
   at a time. In place of the daring and the old speed madness
   that used to characterize the making up of time, the man who
   lasts the longest now in the cab is the one who possesses the
   calculating skill developed by long experience. He accomplishes
   much more simply by taking advantage of every trifle in winning
   back his time second by second.--THADDEUS S. DAYTON,
   _Harper’s Weekly_.

    (2465)

       *       *       *       *       *

It is said to be scarcely possible to induce working men engaged in
dangerous employments to take the most rudimentary precautions against
disease and accident. The knife-grinder neglects his mask, the collier
his lamp; they are ingenious in evading the regulations framed for
their safety.

   Similarly in our recklessness and presumption we ignore the
   things which are designed to secure the safety of our character,
   the peace of our soul. Let us be sure that we prize those
   manifold and gracious arrangements by which God seeks to save
   us from the power of evil, that we profit by them to the
   utmost.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (2466)

   Probably the greatest menace to the safety of navigation
   at sea is the fog. Modern steamships are seldom endangered
   by the severest storms, but when the impenetrable envelop
   of mist encloses a vessel, she is exposed to the most
   terrible of perils--a collision at sea. A single ship may be
   comparatively safe even in a fog, but when there are a fleet
   of vessels the danger is greatly multiplied. In addition to
   the customary fog-horns and sirens a fleet of war-ships often
   will keep informed of their relative positions by the firing
   of signal-guns from the flagship. Another excellent method
   generally employed is the use of the fog-buoy.

   Each vessel in a warship fleet carries a fog-buoy, a large cask
   painted a bright red. This is cast overboard at the first sign
   of any fog and floats from the stern of the vessel attached by
   a rope of grass fiber which does not sink beneath the surface
   of the water. Sufficient rope is paid out by each vessel, so
   that its fog-buoy floats at the bow of the ship next astern--two
   cable’s-length (four hundred yards) when in close order and
   double that distance in open order. By this means the exact
   stations of the individual ships of a fleet are maintained
   even tho proceeding at a moderate rate of speed.--_Harper’s
   Weekly._

    (2467)


                        PRECAUTIONS, SCIENTIFIC

   The teller of a bank standing behind his window in these days of
   electricity can touch a push-button close to his hand and close
   the door of every safe in the place before a thief could have
   time to operate, and by the same signal he can call the police
   or give the alarm to all the bank officials.

    (2468)


                         PRECEPT AND PRACTISE

   One of the great railroad companies has begun a campaign
   against the use of tobacco by its employees, and, while
   none are to be discharged because they indulge in it, they
   are requested to break the habit if possible. This may be a
   good thing, but example speaks louder than precept; if the
   officers want the employees to abandon smoking and chewing,
   the reform ought to begin in the president’s office and go
   down all along the line until it reaches the trackmen and
   laborers. A well-known railroad executive, now deceased, said
   it was of no use to preach temperance to railroad employees
   if officers’ special cars ran over the road with wines and
   liquors on board to be consumed _en route_. He set an
   example by keeping intoxicants out of his car even when he had
   guests.--_Manufacturers’ Record._

    (2469)

       *       *       *       *       *

    I am unjust, but I can strive for justice,
      My life’s unkind, but I can vote for kindness.
    I, the unloving, say life should be lovely;
      I, that am blind, cry out against my blindness.

    Man is a curious brute--he pets his fancies--
      Fighting mankind to win sweet luxury.
    So he will be, tho law be clear as crystal,
      Tho all men plan to live in harmony.

    Come, let us vote against our human nature,
      Crying to God in all the polling-places
    To heal our everlasting sinfulness,
      And make us sages with transfigured faces.

    --NICHOLAS V. LINDSAY, _Unity_.

    (2470)


   =Preciseness Overdone=--See SCRUPLES, MINUTE.


   =Precision=--See _Ahead of Circumstances_.


                               PRECOCITY

   Precocity is not always a cerebral disease, certainly, tho where
   it is pronounced the presumption is not in its favor. Slower
   growths are the surer and attain the greater heights. Usually
   precocity wants a depth which is not supplied to the subject
   in more mature years. With the comparatively few exceptions
   that can be noted, it lacks staying power. The most remarkable
   case of collapsed precocity that occurs to us is that of the
   Englishman Betty, the “young Roscius.” He went on the stage at
   the age of twelve years in 1803, played _Hamlet_ and other
   prominent characters, and in four years amassed a fortune of
   over $150,000, at a time when money was worth twice its present
   face value. For twenty-eight nights in Drury Lane he earned
   over $3,000 a night. He left the stage to go to school, and
   on his return, three years later, made an utter failure and
   never amounted to anything as an actor thereafter.--New York
   _World_.

    (2471)

       *       *       *       *       *

   It is said of Jonathan Edwards that he commenced the study of
   Latin at six years of age; at eight he was keenly interested
   in spiritual matters. At ten he wrote, like a philosopher, a
   quaint and humorous essay on the immortality of the soul, and
   at twelve years of age wrote an original paper on the habits of
   the flying-spider.

    (2472)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Of Mrs. Wesley’s father it is gravely recorded that “when about
   five or six years old he began a practise, which he afterward
   continued, of reading twenty chapters every day in the Bible.”
   The phenomenon of a child not six years old who solemnly forms,
   in the cells of his infantile brain, the plan of reading twenty
   chapters of the Bible every day--and sticks to it through a
   long life--would in these modern days be reckoned nothing
   less than astonishing. Of Hetty Wesley, the sister of John,
   it is on record that at eight years of age she could read the
   Greek Testament. Do any such wonderful children exist in these
   days?--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (2473)

   See PRODIGY, A.


                           PREDICTION, FALSE

Mr. James A. Briggs cites a paragraph from the Boston _Courier_ of
June 27, 1827, then edited by Joseph T. Buckingham, one of the ablest
and most liberal of New England editors. It was but sixty-two years ago
that he thus spoke of the projected railroad from Boston to Albany:

   Alcibiades, or some other great man of antiquity, it is said,
   cut off his dog’s tail that quidnuncs might not become extinct
   from want of excitement. Some such motive, we doubt not,
   moves one or two of our natural and experimental philosophers
   to get up a project for a railroad from Boston to Albany--a
   project which every one knows, who knows the simplest rule in
   arithmetic, to be impracticable and at an expense little less
   than the market value of the whole territory of Massachusetts;
   and which, if practicable, every person of common sense knows
   would be as useless as a railroad from Boston to the moon.

The road was built, and there is no more prosperous road in the
country.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (2474)


   =Preferences=--See SELECTION.


                          PREFERRED CREDITOR

   An Israelite without guile, doing business down in Chatham
   Street, New York, called his creditors together, and offered
   them in settlement his note for ten per cent on their claims,
   payable in four months. His brother, one of the largest
   creditors, rather “kicked”; but the debtor took him aside
   and said, “Do not make any objections, and I will make you
   a preferred creditor.” So the proposal was accepted by all.
   Presently, the preferred brother said, “Well, I should like what
   is coming to me.” “Oh,” was the reply, “you won’t get anything;
   they won’t any of them get anything.” “But I thought I was a
   preferred creditor.” “So you are. These notes will not be paid
   when they come due; but it will take them four months to find
   out that they are not going to get anything. But you know it
   now; you see you are preferred.”--HEMAN L. WAYLAND.

    (2475)


                           PREHISTORIC WOMAN

   In the museum of the Royal College of Surgeons lies a famous
   skull. Discovered at Gibraltar many years ago, it has been
   agreed to be that of a human being of prehistoric times.
   Professor A. Keith, curator of the museum, has compared the
   skull minutely with those of the people of all nations to-day,
   and has set it side by side with all other available prehistoric
   relics. “The skull, I have little doubt, is that of a woman,”
   he said. “From the size of her brain she must have been
   shrewd--probably a woman, too, of considerable spirit. One can
   reckon pretty accurately also the time at which she lived. It
   must have been at least 600,000 years ago. From the jaws and
   the fact that the muscles of mastication were remarkably strong
   it is possible to deduce what this prehistoric woman ate. Nuts
   and roots probably entered very largely into her diet. She was
   in the habit of eating things which required a great amount of
   mastication before much nourishment could be derived from them,
   hence the unusual development of the jaw muscles.”

    (2476)


                              PREJUDGMENT

It is not uncommon for men to judge a cause before they have heard the
facts:

   Lord Eldon said, “I remember Mr. Justice Gould trying a case
   at York, and when he had proceeded for about two hours, he
   observed, ‘Here are only eleven jurymen; where is the twelfth?’
   ‘Please you, my lord,’ said one of the eleven, ‘he is gone
   away about some business, but he has left his verdict with
   me.’”--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (2477)


                               PREJUDICE

   Take equal parts of malice, ignorance and hate, mix well and
   serve hot, and you have prejudice.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2478)


                          PREJUDICE DISARMED

   There is a certain famous preacher, perhaps the leading man in
   his denomination, against whom I have had a prejudice which has
   been slowly increasing for the last twenty-five years. When he
   used his influence a few years ago to prevent the recognition in
   a great ecclesiastical council of two of the noblest spiritual
   leaders of this generation, because of their adherence to the
   old-fashioned faith and methods, my bump of prejudice against
   that man reached full-sized proportions.

   It was my lot very recently to be a member of a house of
   mourning where this same minister was the officiating clergyman,
   and I had to meet him personally. But when he had finished his
   prayer, my prejudice had all melted away like dew before the
   rising sun, and I felt like rushing up to him, putting an arm
   in his, and saying, “You didn’t do it, did you? I’m sure I’ve
   misunderstood; please set me right about yourself.”--GEORGE
   W. COLEMAN, “Searchlights.”

    (2479)


                         PREJUDICE, RELIGIOUS

   An old woman at Jhansi, in North India, a Brahman of strictest
   sect, and mother of a princess who was very ill, called in
   Dr. Blanche Monro, of the Woman’s Union Missionary Society.
   She dismissed the lady doctor each time with smiles, thanks,
   and rich rewards, then grimly ordered her servants to wash
   everything the foreign lady had touched--the floor, table,
   chairs, her own clothes, and finally herself. After she has
   taken a bath, she feels pure once more.

    (2480)


                              PREPARATION

Many disappointments and failures are simply the results of superficial
expectations of easy success without patient preparation of the needed
preliminary conditions.

   A famous English gardener once heard a nobleman say
   complainingly, “I can not have a rose garden, tho I often have
   tried, because the soil around my castle is too poor for roses.”
   “That is no reason at all,” replied the gardener. “You must go
   to work and make it better. Any ground can be made fit for roses
   if pains are taken to prepare it. The poorest soil can be made
   rich.” It was a wise saying, and it is true in other cases than
   rose gardens. Some young people say, “I can’t be cheerful,” or,
   “I can’t be sweet-tempered,” or “I can’t be forgiving,” as if
   they were not responsible for the growths in their soul-garden
   because the soil is poor. But “any ground can be made fit for
   roses,” and any heart can be made fit for the loveliest blossoms
   of character. (Text.)

    (2481)


   =Preparation a Safeguard Against Loss=--See CONTROL OF
      CIRCUMSTANCES.


   =Preparation, Aimless=--See AIMLESSNESS.


   =Preparation by Training=--See TOUGHNESS.


                        PREPARATION CONTINUOUS

   Michelangelo, when an old man, said: “I carry my satchel still!”
   indicating that his life was a perpetual study and preparation.

    (2482)


                          PREPARATION, COSTLY

   Alonzo Cano, a Spanish sculptor, being employed by a lawyer
   of Grenada to make a statue of St. Antonio de Padua, and
   having mentioned how much it would cost, the lawyer began
   to reckon how many pistoles per day the artist had earned.
   “You have,” said he, “been five-and-twenty days carving this
   statue, and your exorbitant demand makes you charge the rate
   of four pistoles per day, while I, who am your superior in
   a profession, do not make half your profits by my talents.”
   “Wretch!” exclaimed the artist; “do you talk to me of your
   talents? I have been five-and-twenty years learning to make this
   statue in five-and-twenty days.” So saying, he dashed it on
   the pavement.--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and
   Lawyers.”

    (2483)


                        PREPARATION, PROPHETIC

   Shortly before the death of Mozart, the musician, a stranger
   brought him an anonymous letter in which a request for a requiem
   was made. To its composition he gave the full strength of his
   powers. The conviction seized him that he was composing a
   requiem for his own obsequies. While engaged in this work and
   under this strange inspiration, he gathered all his strength to
   complete his work. And when the task was finished, a strange
   fire lighted his eye, as the melody, even to his exquisite
   sensibility, was perfect. It bore an unearthly sweetness that
   was to him, too truly, a warning of his future and fast-coming
   doom.

All our life work is, in a way, a preparation for death.

    (2484)


                         PREPARATION SUCCEEDS

A life sketch of Richard Mansfield, the great actor, contains the
following account of his first success on the stage:

   A noted actor had been offered the part but shrank from it,
   and finally absolutely refused to take it. Mansfield saw its
   possibilities and was in a fever of eagerness to get it. In the
   distress and pressure of the situation the manager reluctantly
   gave it to him. Then the young man began to prepare for the
   part. He studied everything which would throw light on the
   character. He interviewed people, visited the haunts of such men
   as the character represented, and he rehearsed and rehearsed
   until his eyes gleamed and his whole being was on fire. When he
   came on the stage for his first act the people were indifferent,
   not even paying attention to the play, but talking and laughing.
   Soon a hush fell upon them. They were spellbound. When the
   curtain fell there was a roar of applause which shook the
   building, and at the close of the play the audience went out
   dazed. Richard Mansfield was never to go hungry again. At a
   bound he had leapt from the dust to the top of the ladder. It
   makes one’s heart leap just to read about it.

    (2485)


   =Preparation, Thorough=--See THOROUGHNESS IN PREPARATION.


                            PRESENCE OF GOD

   One day a poor leper came to Dr. Pauline Root’s dispensary, in
   Madura, India, with a small, dirty cloth about his waist. He
   begged a new garment. It was given and was the cause of great
   delight. Two weeks later he appeared again, making the same
   request. Dr. Root asked him, “Where is the cloth I gave you?” “I
   have it,” the old man replied, “but I am old, and will not live
   long, and some morning it is probable that the people in passing
   by my little mud hut to the river will look in and see me lying
   there dead. When I go into God’s presence I want to be nice. All
   day long I go about for my food and I am very dirty and very
   tired, but when I go home I wash myself and I have kept that
   beautiful long piece of cloth to wrap myself in when I lie down.
   I commit myself to God thinking that perhaps the next morning I
   shall have gone into His presence.” (Text.)

    (2486)

       *       *       *       *       *

    Beneath the shadow of the Great Protection,
      The soul sits, hushed and calm.
    Bathed in the peace of that divine affection,
    No fever-heats of life or dull dejection
      Can work the spirit harm.
        Diviner heavens above
        Look down on it in love.
    And, as the varying winds move where they will,
      In whispers soft, through trackless fields of air,
    So comes the Spirit’s breath, serene and still,
      Its tender messages of love to bear,
    From men of every race and speech and zone,
    Making the whole world one,
    Till every sword shall to a sickle bend,
    And the long, weary strifes of earth shall end.

    --JAMES FREEMAN CLARKE.

    (2487)

       *       *       *       *       *

This metrical prayer is from the New York _Christian Advocate_:

    Stay with me, Lord; the evening sun declineth,
      And I am weary of this rugged way.
    To find repose my fainting spirit pineth--
      O Lord, be Thou my comfort and my stay!
      Tremble my steps with age, my hair is gray,
    And earth-born hopes allure me now no more.
      But Thou, my Savior, cast me not away.
    O lead me gently till, my journey o’er,
    I reach my Father’s house, safe sheltered evermore.

    Stay with me, Lord; even now to the dark valley
      My step descendeth, and the chilling gloom
    Is gathering o’er my pathway deep and dreary--
      Dread shadows of the ay mysterious tomb.
      Now may Thy lamp this fearful vale illume;
    Its light alone these terrors can dispel.
      Where Thou, my Lord, art guide, no ill can come.
    Thou mighty Conqueror of death and hell,
    To Thee I trust my soul and know that all is well.

    (2488)

   What may be round the next headland we know not; but this we
   know, that the same sunshine will make a broadening path across
   the waters right to where we rock on the unknown sea, and the
   same unmoving mighty star will burn for our guidance. So we
   may let the waves and currents roll as they list, or rather as
   He wills, and be little concerned about the incidents or the
   companions of our voyage, since He is with us.--ALEXANDER
   MCLAREN.

    (2489)

   See PERSEVERANCE.


                           PRESENCE OF MIND

   On New-year’s eve at one of the largest restaurants in New York,
   a woman’s dress caught fire, and, altho surrounded by other
   diners, the flame was not extinguished until she had received
   burns from which she subsequently died.

   It seems incredible, yet it is a fact. And while the woman
   blazed, and shrieked in her agony, the men sought to extinguish
   the flame with napkins and their hands!

   As I journey through life in town or in the wilderness, the
   quality I find most lacking in the human animal is presence of
   mind; and that is one of the good reasons why I am so persistent
   and outspoken an advocate of games for boys, especially games
   where the action is quick and where the boy must needs think,
   and quickly, under stress of combat, so to say.

   Had there been any football players within reach of that poor
   woman, one of them would probably have had the sense to take
   off his coat and smother the flame.--CASPAR WHITNEY,
   _Collier’s Weekly_.

    (2490)


                        PRESENCES, UNRECOGNIZED

   In a German art gallery is a famous canvas entitled “Cloudland.”
   To a casual glance it looks like a daub of confused color
   without form or beauty. But upon close examination it reveals a
   mass of exquisite little cherub faces--an innumerable multitude
   of angels. So Milton:

    “Millions of spiritual creatures walk this earth
    Unseen, both when we wake and when we sleep.” (Text.)

    (2491)


   =Present Alone is Ours=--See TO-MORROW, UNCERTAINTY OF.


   =Present, The=--See NIGHT, GOD’S PRESENCE IN THE; NOW, DO IT.


                             PRESERVATION

   It was one of the coldest days of winter. Benny came home from
   school, intending to brave the cold and go coasting till dark;
   but, when he found mama had a sick headache, he said nothing
   about coasting, but volunteered to amuse four-year-old Lulu
   while mama lay down for a nap. That’s the kind of a boy Benny
   was!

   “Let’s blow soap-bubbles,” he said, taking Lulu into the
   kitchen, where he made a cup of beautiful soap-suds. Each had a
   pipe, and they blew bubbles for a long time. The sun shone in at
   the window, making them all the colors of the rainbow.

   “Oh, I wish I could keep ’em!” sighed Lulu. “They are so pretty!”

   An idea came into Benny’s wise young head. He took a piece of
   an old, soft, woolen blanket, and carrying it out into the
   shed, spread it very smoothly on the floor in an out-of-the-way
   corner. Then, going back into the kitchen, he said:

   “Now, Lulu, I’m going out into the shed to work a few minutes.
   It’s too cold for you out there, but, if my plans work well,
   I’ll wrap you up warm and take you out to see what I have done.
   You keep on blowing bubbles here.”

   “All right,” said Lulu cheerfully.

   Benny carried out part of the soap-suds, and as rapidly as
   possible blew about a dozen bubbles, floating them on to the
   soft blanket. The cold was so intense that they froze instantly
   before they could burst; and there they stood, looking like so
   many delicate glass balls.

   When the blanket was well filled, Benny went in and, putting
   on Lulu’s warm wraps, took her out to see the bubbles. How
   surprized she was!

   “Can’t I roll ’em round?” she asked.

   “No indeed!” said Benny. “The least touch would break them all
   to smash!”

   When mama got up with her headache relieved, she had to go out
   and see the bubbles, and so did papa when he came home.

   The night was so cold, and the shed door and windows being
   closed, so that there was no draught of air, the bubbles were
   as good as ever in the morning. But before noon they began to
   crack open and dry away, and, when Benny came home at night, the
   weather was milder and each bright bubble had vanished, leaving
   only a bit of soap-suds in its place.

   This is a true story, and some sharp day this winter
   you bright boys and girls can try the experiment for
   yourselves.--MATTIE A. BAKER, _Youth’s Companion_.

    (2492)

   See RESUSCITATION.


                      PRESERVATION, A PROCESS OF

It is not hard to believe that the passage through death will be the
occasion for a new blossoming of the flowers of character, after the
analogy of the frozen flowers about which this account from _Harper’s
Weekly_ is given:

   The latest and most approved method of preserving flowers during
   transportation is that of freezing them. When this process
   is employed the flowers are picked while in the bud and will
   keep perfectly for several weeks in refrigerator boxes. No
   deterioration in their beauty results from this treatment, and
   after they have been unpacked and placed in water they slowly
   revive and the blossoms develop fully. During the period of
   refrigeration all growth is suspended, and so slowly do the
   flowers return to their natural state that such blossoms will
   last much longer in a room than would be the case had they been
   brought directly from the greenhouse or the garden.

   The facility with which horticultural specimens have been
   transported by this new method has led to experiments in South
   Africa, with a view to determining whether many of their
   wonderful flowers may not be safely exported in bulk to supply
   the trade in Europe and America.

    (2493)


   =Preservatives=--See EVIL, PROTECTION FROM.


                       PRESS, OMNISCIENCE OF THE

   I have been somewhat of a reader of the newspapers for forty
   years; I could read very well when I was eight years of age.
   It has given me forty years of observation of the press; and
   there is one peculiarity that I have observed from reading
   it, and that is, in all of the walks of life outside of the
   press, people have entirely mistaken their profession, their
   occupation. I never knew the mayor of a city, or even a
   councilman in any city, any public officer, any government
   official--I never knew a member of Congress, a Senator or a
   President of the United States, who could not be enlightened in
   his duties by the youngest member of the profession. I never
   knew a general of the army to command a brigade, a division, a
   corps of the army, who could begin to do it as well as men far
   away in their sanctums.--U. S. GRANT.

    (2494)


                      PRESS, PROSTITUTION OF THE

   The Salt Lake _Herald_ abstracts from “The Press of the World”
   some of the “rules of conduct” which Benjamin Franklin followed
   in his first journalistic venture. “They are so perfectly
   applicable to present-day newspapers,” it says, “that they
   are worth preserving and emphasizing.” He had just begun the
   publication of his _Pennsylvania Gazette_ when an article was
   submitted to him that did not meet his views of propriety. With
   his customary deliberation he did not at once reject it, but
   told the writer he would sleep over it and give his decision the
   next day. This is how he applied his rules to the subject:

   “I have perused your piece,” he wrote, “and find it to be
   scurrilous and defamatory. To determine whether I should publish
   it or not, I went home in the evening, purchased a two-penny
   loaf at the baker’s, and, with water from the pump, made my
   supper; I then wrapt myself up in my great coat, and laid down
   on the floor and slept till morning, when, on another loaf and
   a mug of water, I made my breakfast. From this regimen I feel
   no inconvenience whatever. Finding I can live in this manner, I
   have formed the determination never to prostitute my press to
   corruption and abuse of this kind for the sake of gaining a more
   comfortable subsistence.”

    (2495)


   =Press, Using the=--See NEWSPAPERS AND MISSIONARY INTELLIGENCE.


                               PRETENSE

   About the time when it was fashionable in France to cut off
   men’s heads, as we lop away superfluous sprouts from our
   apple-trees, the public attention was excited by a certain
   monkey that had been taught to act the part of a patriot to
   great perfection. If you pointed at him, says the historian,
   and called him an aristocrat or a monarchist, he would fly at
   you with great rage and violence; but, if you would do him
   the justice to call him a good patriot, he manifested every
   mark and joy of satisfaction. But, tho the whole French nation
   gazed at this animal as a miracle, he was, after all, no very
   strange sight. There are, in all countries, a great many monkeys
   who wish to be thought patriots, and a great many others
   who believe them such. But, because we are often deceived by
   appearances, let us not believe that the reality does not
   exist.--DANIEL WEBSTER.

    (2496)

       *       *       *       *       *

   At a recent horse-race one of the horses attracted a great deal
   of attention before the start by his remarkable appearance, and
   many spectators thought he would surely win. He was so full of
   life, and so eager to begin the race, that he broke through the
   barrier and ran several hundred feet before the jockey could
   stop him. The animal was full of confidence and life, but he
   finished fifteenth in a race of sixteen.

   This horse furnished a pretty good illustration of the human
   bluffer, the man who struts and brags, who makes great
   pretensions, lots of noise, but never gets anywhere. The silent,
   unpretentious man, who keeps pegging away, distances him in the
   great life race.--_Success Magazine._

    (2497)

   See ENVY GRATIFIED.


                          PRETENSE OF VIRTUE

It is a cynical saying that “every man has his price,” but it is
difficult at times to judge what any man might do under stress of
unusual circumstances. An illustration of this point is the following:

   A Scots business representative called upon a firm whose
   principal desired to make him a Christmas present. The honest
   fellow was scandalized. He could not dream of accepting
   presents. If such a thing were in the minds of the firm, let
   them transfer their favor in the shape of discount to the house
   which he represented. They did not mean anything of the sort,
   they told him; this was a little matter personal to himself.
   He threw back his shoulders; he was not to be bribed. “Oh, but
   this is no bribe,” he was answered; “all we propose to do is to
   offer you a nice box of cigars, for which you shall give us,
   say, sixpence.” The choler of the virtuous one died away. He put
   his hand into his pocket and drew forth a coin. “I’m to take a
   box and give you sixpence? Well, I havena’ a sixpence. Here’s a
   shillin’; I’ll tak’ twa boxes!”

    (2498)


                           PRETENSE, SELFISH

An English writer thus speaks of an indiscreet adventure of a
costermonger and an electric eel:

   Before this gymnotus was publicly exhibited it was deposited
   at a French hotel in the neighborhood of Leicester Square. A
   burly fishmonger’s man, named Wren, brought in the daily supply
   of fish to the establishment, when some of the servants told
   him they had an eel so large that he would be afraid to pick it
   up. He laughed at the idea of being afraid of an eel, and when
   taken to the tub boldly plunged in both hands to seize the fish.
   A hideous roar followed this attempt. Wren had experienced a
   demonstration of the “psychic force” of the electrical eel, and
   his terror so largely exaggerated the actual violence of the
   shock, that he believed for the remainder of his life that he
   was permanently injured by it. He had periodical spasms across
   the chest, which could only be removed by taking a half-quarter
   of gin. As he was continually narrating his adventure to
   public-house audiences, and always had a spasm on concluding,
   which his hearers usually contributed to relieve, the poor
   fellow’s life was actually shortened by the shock from the
   gymnotus.

The man’s recurring pains usually made their appearance at places and
times when thirst could be quenched. Many bodily ills are simulated or
imaginary.

    (2499)


                              PREVENTION

John S. Wise records this conversation with Grover Cleveland:

   “I ought to have a monument over me when I die.” “I am sure
   of that, Mr. Cleveland,” I answered; “but for what particular
   service?” “Oh, not for anything I have ever done,” said he,
   “but for the foolishness I have put a stop to! If you knew the
   absurd things proposed to me at various times while I have
   been in public life--things which I sat down on, and sat down
   hard on--you would say so, too!”--“Personal Reminiscences of
   Cleveland,” _The Saturday Evening Post_.

    (2500)

       *       *       *       *       *

In morals, quite as truly as in physics, the profitable time to deal
with any evil is in its incipient stage:

   The diseases that occupy the physician most are maladies that
   have reached an advanced stage, when it is not easy to combat
   them. On the other hand, the study of diseases at their
   outset, when they yield best to treatment, is almost neglected.
   It is certain that if every physician were also a trained
   physiologist, watching to relieve the slightest functional
   troubles, he would often be able to recognize small changes
   that are the common preludes to grave maladies.--_Revue
   Scientifique._

    (2501)

   See FEAR AS A MOTIVE; WARNING.


                               PREVISION

   Otto Meyer and his wife, Mary, solved the difficulties attending
   the high cost of living as far as they are concerned. They
   have lived for years on a thirty-acre farm near the village
   of Riverside, Cook County. By a deed filed in the Recorder’s
   office, Meyer, for a consideration of $6,000 in cash, conveyed
   to his son, Fritz H. Meyer, the farm. But in return for this,
   the elder Meyer is to be furnished with all the necessities of
   life, including a house, regardless of the market price, as long
   as he or his wife lives.

   A part of this unique deed reads as follows:

   “The grantee is to provide a sufficient supply of fruit, a
   sufficient supply of vegetables of all kinds, to be delivered
   on demand; one drest hog of 200 pounds weight, one fore-quarter
   of fresh beef, to be delivered on December 15 in each year;
   one-half dozen fat ducks, one-half dozen fat roosters, drest, to
   be delivered November 1 of each year, and three barrels of best
   quality of wheat flour, to be delivered, one barrel each time on
   January 1, May 1, and September 1 of each year; twenty bushels
   of good eatable potatoes, to be delivered on demand; two pounds
   of fresh butter each week, one dozen fresh eggs each week, one
   quart of fresh milk each day, except Saturday; one half-gallon
   of fresh milk and $40 in cash, $20 on March 1 and $20 on July 1
   in each year.”

    (2502)


   =Price as a Test=--See GOLD, TAINT OF.


                           PRICES AND WAGES

   The welfare of wage-earners is intimately affected by the
   relation between the rate of wages and the prices of necessary
   commodities that wage-earners have to buy. The diagram below
   from _The Literary Digest_, gives the comparison of wages
   and prices for a term of recent years.

    (2503)


   =Prices, Extravagant=--See EXTRAVAGANCE, MODERN.

  [Illustration: SHOWING THE RISE IN THE AVERAGE PRICE OF 96
  STAPLE COMMODITIES.]

  [Illustration: SHOWING THE AVERAGE RISE IN WAGES BASED ON AN
  INVESTIGATION OF 4,000 LARGE INDUSTRIAL ESTABLISHMENTS.]


                                 PRIDE

   E. H. Harriman, the railroad magnate, has a big country place
   in Virginia--a hunting-box, he calls it, but it is more like a
   hunting Waldorf-Astoria. One morning Mr. Harriman arose early
   and was sitting on one of the porches.

   A milkman drove up and got out to bring in some milk. The
   milkman started in the front door.

   “Here, you,” snapped Harriman. “Take that milk around the back
   way. What do you mean by bringing it in this way?”

   “Mean?” said the milkman. “I mean that I am a Virginia
   gentleman, and I am not accustomed to be talked to in this
   manner, suh. I shall deliver this milk where I please, suh. If
   you do not like it you have a means of obtaining satisfaction,
   suh. No No’therner like you can talk to me like that, suh.”

   Harriman retired. Next morning, when the same milkman arrived,
   Harriman greeted him with a low bow. “You are right,” he said.
   “Take the milk in the front way and leave it on the piano.”
   (Text.)

    (2504)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Recently I read the experience of a yachting party on the
   Mediterranean. A sudden storm had come up and threatened to
   overwhelm the boat. One of the two women on board lost her head
   completely and seemed crazed by fear. Suddenly she cried out to
   the other woman sitting calmly beside her: “You know you are as
   frightened as I am. Why don’t you show it, too?” “Oh, yes, I am
   frightened,” replied the other woman, “for I know the danger we
   are in. But, if we are going to die, do let us at least die like
   ladies.” And that appeal to pride wrought a complete change in
   the frightened woman, she became calm and even spoke words of
   encouragement to the others.--M. O. SIMMONS.

    (2505)

       *       *       *       *       *

   There was once a proud little Icicle who stood all alone out
   in the cold. She wore a dress that sparkled like diamonds, but
   for all that, no one cared to go near her. The snowflakes were
   having a game of tag in the sky. Nearer and nearer the earth
   they played until some of them espied Miss Icicle.

   “Do come and play with us!” they cried.

   But the proud Icicle shook her head. “No,” she said, “you are
   entirely too common to play with me; I am a princess.”

   “I’ll show the world what you are, you silly thing,” called
   Grandfather Sun from his cloud chariot. So he sent some of his
   children, the Sunbeams, to breathe on Miss Icicle’s head. This
   made her feel so sick that she wept great tears. The more she
   wept the thinner she grew, till at last a tiny pool of water was
   all that was left. (Text.)

    (2506)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A gourd wound itself around a lofty palm, and in a few weeks
   climbed to its very top. “How old mayest thou be?” asked the
   gourd. “About a hundred years,” was the reply. “A hundred years
   and no taller! Only look, I have grown as tall as you in less
   than a hundred days,” said the puffed-up gourd. The stately
   palm calmly replied: “I know that well. Every summer of my life
   a gourd has climbed up my body and spread over my branches, as
   proud as thou art, and as short-lived as thou shalt be.”

    (2507)

   See VANITY.


                          PRIDE IN ONE’S TASK

The following is told of John F. Stevens, who was appointed by
President Roosevelt to take charge of the Panama Canal:

   Sometime in the seventies, and somewhere in Arizona, both the
   time and place where the Apaches were very seriously on the
   warpath, it became necessary to send a message across a hundred
   or two miles of desert. There was offered a reward of five
   hundred dollars to the man who would carry it. The peril was
   undeniable and nobody seemed to consider the reward worth the
   probable cost of it. But presently John Stevens undertook to
   deliver the message. He eluded the Apaches and made the journey
   successfully on foot, but declined the five hundred dollars. The
   thing had been there to do; he preferred to do it for its own
   sake. (Text.)--_American Magazine._

    (2508)


   =Primitive Organisms=--See CHOICE IN PRIMITIVE ORGANISMS.


                               PRINCIPLE

   One Sunday morning in Genoa a woman whom British people love
   stood by the dying bed of a man whose memory the world reveres.
   Josephine Butler stood by the bedside of Garibaldi, the old
   hero’s gaunt figure still clothed with the scarlet tunic which
   recalled the day when ten thousand “Garibaldis” swept on to
   victory and liberty with his name upon their lips. And the dying
   man said to the living woman:

   “Never forget that tho we pass away and the leaders of a
   cause fall one by one, principles never pass away. They are
   world-wide, unchangeable and eternal.”--CHARLES F. AKED.

    (2509)

       *       *       *       *       *

The Rev. W. F. Crafts tells this story of a clerk who stood by his
principles:

   Stephen Girard, the infidel millionaire of Philadelphia, one
   Saturday bade his clerks come the following day and unload a
   vessel which had just arrived. One of the clerks, who had strong
   convictions and the power to act upon them, refused to comply
   with the demand. “Well, sir,” said Mr. Girard, “if you can
   not do as I wish, we can separate.” “I know that, sir,” said
   the hero; “I also know that I have a widowed mother to care
   for, but I can not work on Sunday.” “Very well, sir,” said the
   proprietor, “go to the cashier’s desk, and he will settle with
   you.” For three weeks the young man tramped the streets of
   Philadelphia, looking for work. One day a bank president asked
   Mr. Girard to name a suitable person for cashier for a new bank
   about to be started. After reflection, Mr. Girard named this
   young man. “But I thought you discharged him?” “I did,” was the
   answer, “because he would not work on Sunday, and the man who
   will lose his situation from principle is the man to whom you
   can intrust your money.” (Text.)

    (2510)

   See FEELING AND PRINCIPLE.


                         PRINCIPLES, MASTERING

   Learning must be transformed into life. One would not expect to
   find the yeast if he made a cross-section of a loaf of bread.
   A cow eats grass all day, but we do not expect the cow to give
   grass. She is expected to give milk. A boy may study arithmetic
   and learn to do a few examples correctly. He can tell if each
   shoe is to have five nails, how many it will take to shoe a
   horse. But suppose the horse’s shoes needed six nails? He is
   baffled because he has found a case which was not met by his
   example; but when he masters the principle of which his sum is
   but an illustration, he can address himself to the problems of
   life as they come.--EVERETT D. BURR, “Proceedings of
   the Religious Education Association,” 1905.

    (2511)


                           PRISON LIFE, EASY

   French prisons, it is said, are such pleasant places of
   confinement that at the approach of every winter they are
   besieged by requests from vagrants for shelter.

   Fresnes is notorious for its “hospitality,” and so agreeable is
   a sojourn there that many criminals, at the approach of winter,
   regularly arrange to get locked up until it is time to come out
   into the balmy air of springtime and the genial sunshine.

   A short time since, the story goes, a new prison in France was
   opened to receive its first prisoner, sentenced to six months’
   detention. The new establishment had cost nearly $20,000 to
   build and equip, but unfortunately the prison budget made no
   allowance for the warders and their “guests.”

   The governor finally solved the dilemma by deciding that a
   policeman, who was married, should take up his quarters in
   the prison and serve the prisoner with his meals. But after
   a few days the policeman got tired of this. The profit made
   on the arrangement was very small, and in a confidential tone
   he confided to the prisoner that, if he cared to take “French
   leave,” he would see that every facility was given him to do so.
   But his charge quickly reassured him on the point.

   “I’m all right here,” he said. “Your wife is an excellent cook.
   You are all very kind to me. This is a nice, new prison. I
   haven’t been so well off for a long time. You don’t catch me
   running away. What’s more, if you discharge me, I’ll jolly soon
   be back.”

   Then the chief warder tried to persuade the prisoner that he
   would be well advised to make himself scarce. But he might as
   well have saved himself the trouble, for he met with no more
   success than the policeman. All the doors and windows of the
   prison were left wide open. He was given permission, he was even
   asked to go for a walk, in the hope that he would disappear
   for good. He thanked his jailers, and several times went for a
   stroll around the neighborhood.

   But he always returned again in time for his meals. One night
   recently, however, he met an old friend when he was out, and
   after a glass or two of wine they found so many things to
   talk about that it was three o’clock in the morning when the
   “prisoner” returned to his lodgings. But altho he hung on to the
   bell and rung for all he was worth, no one came to the prison
   gate. At last the policeman opened a window and shouted angrily:

   “If you don’t begone, I’ll fire on you.”

   The lodger took the hint, but at six o’clock he was back
   again, and his guardian had to comply with his request to be
   admitted to his cell. How the affair will end no one knows,
   but it is said that the Sous-Préfet is seriously thinking of
   offering the “prisoner” a louis to go elsewhere for his food and
   lodging.--Baltimore _Sun_.

    (2512)


                           PRISON LITERATURE

   Dumas is of all authors the favorite at Sing Sing, and 1,413
   volumes of his work were read by convicts in the course of
   the year. This shows good literary taste. Other authors, as
   represented by the number of their books read, ranked as
   follows: Charles Reade, 720; Collins, 649; Corelli, 596; Doyle,
   584; Dickens, 567; Haggard, 481; Crawford, 415, and Henty, 402.

   After fiction came biography, of which 1,227 volumes were read;
   history followed with 953 volumes; religion with 792, and poetry
   with 205. Of books in foreign languages, German led with 1,686
   volumes, Hebrew was next with 1,259; Italian third, with 1,067,
   and French last, with 545.

   What intelligence and vitality is enclosed in the walls of
   prisons! But it is, at least, something of a comfort to realize
   that men’s lives no longer drag out in the silence and neglect
   that once attended punishment. Now the influences of the outside
   world reach them, conveying still some sense of fellowship, for
   many, of coming opportunity. (Text.)--_The Reader Magazine._

    (2513)


   =Prisoner, A, and His Liberty=--See DEAD THO ALIVE.


                       PRISONERS, EMPLOYMENT FOR

   The Maryland Prisoners’ Aid Association have established a
   woodyard and novelty manufacturing shop at No. 311 North Street,
   Baltimore, where steady employment is furnished those desiring
   to start anew after liberation from penal institutions. Like all
   work of this kind, the new plant is conducted with the idea of
   defraying its own expense, and not to realize profits.

   All the machinery in the woodyard, which, in full operation,
   employs twenty men, is driven by electricity. The principal
   product is kindling, manufactured from cordwood shipped from
   Anne Arundel County. The wood is unloaded from cars alongside
   the sawmill, where it is cut, split and loaded on wagons ready
   for delivery.

   An important feature of the plant is the shop on the second
   floor, where light cabinet articles of all descriptions are
   manufactured. Many of the men going to the Aid Society for
   help in obtaining employment are of a mechanical turn, and
   these are given positions in the shop. In charge of a skilled
   cabinet-maker and woodworker, John McVauley, tables, chairs,
   magazine racks, umbrella-stands, settees, stools, upholstered
   furniture and miscellaneous household articles are turned out
   for which the men are paid wages about equal to the rates paid
   by manufacturing plants.--Baltimore _Sun_.

    (2514)


                           PRIVACY, LACK OF

   Korean homes are in a sense open to all the world. Any one
   who pleases may try the door, push it open, and come in. He
   needs no first acquaintance, and no introduction. An ordinary
   Korean guest-room is free to all the world. On the other hand,
   the inner quarters are separate, and for a male traveler to
   venture there would be a breach of the most sacred law of
   society. Into this outer room come gentlemen of leisure, tramps,
   fortune-tellers, Buddhist priests, all mankind, in fact. Here
   is located the high seat of the master. As you live in this
   guest-room, you feel the fearful lack of privacy. You are as
   tho encamped on the open highway, under the gaze of all men. If
   you write a letter, the question is, to whom are you writing
   it. “Why do you write thus and thus? What reference is here?
   Who? When?” These are the questions that are asked by those who
   look over your shoulder, without any breach of proper form or
   infraction of the eternal law that governs things.--JAMES S.
   GALE, “Korea in Transition.”

    (2515)


                        PRIVATION, COMPARATIVE

   While her husband was still lying in prison for debt, the
   Archbishop of York asked Susannah Wesley:

   “Tell me, Mrs. Wesley, whether you were ever really in want of
   bread?”

   “My lord,” she answered, “strictly speaking, I never did want
   bread. But then I had so much care to get it before it was
   eaten, and to pay for it after, as has often made it very
   unpleasant to me; and I think to have bread under such terms is
   the next degree of wretchedness to having none at all.”--W.
   H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (2516)


                               PRIVILEGE

In “The Gospel of Life,” Charles Wagner writes this sound wisdom:

   Never is knowledge more touching or art more radiant than when
   they illumine the brow of the obscure. I am quite familiar with
   the fact that there are certain privileged ones of the earth
   who believe that this kind of good is reserved for them, that
   these are meats too delicate to be set before common folk.
   Scandalized at seeing the people walking about in the Louvre
   or in the halls of the Hotel de Ville, some one said to me one
   day, “Do you think that it was for these people that Puvis de
   Chavannes painted his ceilings?” “I don’t know as a matter of
   fact,” I said, “whether it was for them that he painted them.
   But I know another ceiling more beautiful than are these of
   earth; that which at night the myriads of stars cover with
   their constellations, that on which according to the magnificent
   image of the poet:

    “‘God paints the dawn, like a fresco, on the dark wall of night.’”
                                                             (Text.)

    (2517)


                   PRIVILEGE INVOLVES RESPONSIBILITY

   When T. H. Benton was in the House he was of the opinion that
   the third day of March, and consequently the congressional
   term, ended at midnight of that day, instead of at noon on the
   fourth, as unbroken usage had fixt it. So on the last morning
   he sat with his hat on, talked loudly, loafed about the floor,
   and finally refused to vote or answer to his name when the roll
   was called. At last the speaker, the Hon. James L. Orr, of South
   Carolina, picked him up and put an end to these legislative
   larks.

   “No, sir; no, sir; NO, sir!” shouted the venerable Missourian;
   “I will not vote. I have no right to vote. This is no House, and
   I am not a member of it.”

   “Then, sir,” said Speaker Orr like a flash, with his sweetest
   manner, “if the gentleman is not a member of this House, the
   sergeant-at-arms will please put him out.”

   And so this vast constitutional question settled itself.

    (2518)


                          PRIVILEGES SLIGHTED

Mrs. Mary A. Wright, a veteran Sunday-school teacher of New Jersey,
relates an odd story of human interest taken from personal observation.

   I went to see a beautiful new farmhouse near Fort Wayne, Iowa. A
   friend who accompanied me explained that the owner, a prosperous
   ranchman, had been forty years building it. He had started life
   in a small home of logs--but in his early days had dreamed of
   a larger and better home for himself and family. Every tree he
   saw that struck his fancy he cut down and hewed into lumber
   so that when he was finally ready to erect his mansion he had
   all the seasoned material at hand. The new home was at last
   completed and beautifully finished upon the interior in polished
   natural woods. There were soft carpets for the floors, and
   rich furnishings; a bath-room, steam heat, and other modern
   conveniences.

   That was several years before my visit, but I learned that,
   altho surrounded by all of this luxury, the farmer and his
   family lived in the basement. He had spent the best years of his
   life striving to build such a beautiful home, but, after getting
   it, he thought it too good to use and the family kept it to look
   at. The farmer and his family washed at the old pump in the
   yard while the costly tiled bath-room, with hot and cold water
   equipment, stood idle. They drank out of tin cups and ate off of
   cracked earthenware in their humble abode in the basement, while
   fine cut-glass and delicate china pieces reposed undisturbed in
   china-closets in the elegantly furnished dining-room up-stairs.

   All the members of the family entered into the spirit of
   “keeping the house looking nice,” and they kept it so nice
   that the wife and mother who had worn out her life in helping
   to secure the luxuries that she afterward thought too good to
   enjoy, begged to be allowed to die on a straw mattress in the
   cellar rather than muss the clean linen in the bed-chambers
   above.

How much that is like some people. They are living in life’s basement,
carefully cherishing the higher and nobler things to look at and show
their friends, when they might experience life’s fullest joys and
privileges for the choosing.

    (2519)


   =Prize=--See DISCOVERY, FORTUNATE.


                               PROBATION

   Judge Mulqueen, of General Sessions, New York City, explained
   why he had sentenced two prisoners to “go home and serve time
   with their families.” This “punishment” was imposed when both
   men pleaded drunkenness as their excuse for trivial offenses.

   In the case of the first man, said the judge, the offense had
   been assault. The prisoner, an employee of the Street Cleaning
   Department, had a wife and five children to support, and had
   already spent more than a month in the Tombs, waiting for his
   trial.

   “Now, to send such a man to jail,” continued Judge Mulqueen,
   “would do decidedly more harm than good. He wasn’t a criminal. I
   think he was penitent, and he promised to do as I said, to cut
   out drink and attend to business.

   “Still, his offense was a misdemeanor in the eyes of the law,
   and I might have given him a year in the penitentiary and $500
   fine, which usually means another year, since the men pay their
   fines by working for the State. Instead of that, I placed him
   on probation for a year.

   “He must report once a week to the probation officer. Also,
   he is watched, not suspiciously, but merely as a matter of
   precaution. If he is caught entering a saloon--I warned him of
   this--he will be punished. It’s simply giving him a chance to
   make good.”

    (2520)

   See EXCLUSION FROM HEAVEN.


   =Problems, Gaging=--See =Distance=.


                            PROCRASTINATION

   He meant to insure his house, but it burned before he got around
   to it.

   He was just going to pay a note when it went to protest.

   He was just going to help his neighbor when he died.

   He was just going to send flowers to a sick friend when it
   proved too late.

   He was just going to reduce his debt when his creditors “shut
   down” on him.

   He was just going to stop drinking and dissipating when his
   health became wrecked.

   He was just going to provide his wife with more help when
   she took her bed and required a nurse, a doctor and a
   maid.--_Success Magazine._

    (2521)


                             PRODIGAL, THE

Theodosia Garrison shows in these verses the melting power of love:

    When I came to you banned, dishonored,
      Brother of yours no more,
    And raised my hands where your roof-tree stands,
      Why did you open the door?

    When I came to you starving--thirsting,
      Beggared of aught but sin,
    Why did you rise with welcoming eyes
      And lift me and bid me in?

    You have set me the first at the feast
      And robed me in tenderness,
    Yet, brothers of mine, these tears for sign
      That I would your grace were less.

    For I had not been crusht by your hate
      Who courted the pain thereof,
    But you stab me through when you give anew,
    O brothers, your love--your love!
    (Text.)

    (2522)

       *       *       *       *       *

This pathetic incident is told by Dr. J. Wilbur Chapman:

   Mr. Moody told me that he was once invited to luncheon in one
   of the great homes in the city of New York. He noticed that
   his hostess was continually rising and leaving the room. He
   said to himself, “She must be in trouble. If she goes again I
   will follow her.” She did go out again and our great evangelist
   rose from the table and went out into the next room. When the
   mother saw him she was plunged into confusion. Her face flushed
   a fiery red. Seated upon the couch in the room was a boy with
   dishevelled hair, with bloodshot eyes, with clothing in rags.
   The mother recovered herself in a moment, walked across the
   room as if she had been a queen, threw her arms around her boy.
   Then, walking over to our great preacher, she said: “Mr. Moody,
   I do not think you have ever met my son. This is my boy, Mr.
   Moody; he is a prodigal, but I love him.” Mr. Moody said she put
   her lips up against the boy’s cheek and he suddenly burst into
   a flood of tears, dropt on his knees and, after Mr. Moody had
   spoken to him, he came to Christ. (Text.)

    (2523)


                              PRODIGY, A

   Professor Boris Sidis has given, in response to requests,
   an authentic account of the scope and aims of his son’s
   intellectual career. “I do not believe in the prevailing system
   of education for children,” writes Professor Sidis. “I have
   educated my son upon a system of my own, based to some extent
   upon principles laid down by Professor William James.” This
   system, Professor Sidis insists, has justified itself by its
   results in the case of the boy prodigy of Harvard. He knows
   as much at eleven, the father says, “as a gifted professor
   of mature years,” and when he grows up “he will amaze the
   world.” Nor is the result due to heredity or to abnormality of
   the child’s brain. The results achieved in the case of this
   eleven-year-old lad are due wholly to the methods of training
   pursued. To quote the father’s words as given the New York
   _American_:

   “As the baby grows more rapidly after birth than at any other
   time, so his brain develops most rapidly then and becomes less
   sensitive to impressions as he grows older. The process of
   education can not begin too soon.

   “I began to train my boy in the use of his faculties immediately
   after his birth. He was bound to use them anyway, and therefore
   I took care that he used them properly. I taught the child to
   observe accurately, to analyze and synthesize and make sound
   deductions. Neither his mother nor myself confused him with baby
   talk, meaningless sounds or foolish gestures, and thus, altho he
   learned to reason so early, his mind was no more burdened than
   that of the ordinary child.

   “I knew that as soon as he began to speak his first interest
   would be in the sounds he was uttering, and so I trained him to
   identify the elements of sound. Taking a box of large alphabet
   blocks I named each to him day after day.

   “In this way he learned to read and spell correctly before he
   was two years old. What was still more important, he learned to
   reason correctly.”

    (2524)


   =Productions, Interchange of=--See CHRISTIANITY, SOCIAL.


   =Profanity=--See AMBASSADOR, THE MINISTER AS AN; SWEARING.


                         PROFANITY AND PRAYER

Is not much of our praying of as little significance as the profanity
mentioned below:

   Mr. Pierson was a man of no religious principles. Without
   exception he was the most profane man I ever knew. He would
   hardly utter a word without an oath. His habit of profanity had
   become so inveterate that it seemed almost as involuntary as his
   breathing. The wife of a clergyman, for whom he was working at
   one time, reproved him, when he pleasantly replied:

   “Why, madam, I don’t mean anything when I swear, any more than
   you do when you pray.”--ASA BULLARD, “Incidents in a
   Busy Life.”

    (2525)


                       PROFANITY IN FORMER TIMES

Swearing in the drawing-room and in the “best society” was no uncommon
thing ninety years ago. Even the ladies themselves not rarely indulged
in it. Dean Ramsey tells an anecdote that well illustrates how it was
regarded. A sister was speaking of her brother as much addicted to the
habit, and she said, “Our John swears awfu’, and we try to correct
him for it; but,” she added, apologetically, “nae doubt it is a great
set-off to conversation.”--MINOT J. SAVAGE, _The Arena_.

    (2526)


                              PROFESSION

   The lives of some who are estimated as men of holiness are like
   the bodies in certain ancient tombs, that retain the form and
   features they had when living, but which crumble at a touch.
   They are surrounded with all the ornaments of the living, and
   have the shape of men, but they are only dust. So a touch of
   temptation or any test of life applied to some men causes their
   apparent saintliness to crumble.

    (2627)


   =Profession, Empty=--See CHURCH, DEADNESS OF THE.


                      PROFESSION VERSUS CHARACTER

   In a former pastorate there was a man in my congregation who
   could talk like Demosthenes or Cicero. He used excellent
   grammar, and seemed to know the Bible pretty well from Genesis
   to Revelation. He could quote Longfellow, and Tennyson, and
   Whittier, and a stranger would be charmed by his eloquent
   utterances. And yet when he rose to talk in a prayer-meeting,
   the crowd began to wither, and when his talk was over the
   prayer-meeting was like a sweet-potato patch on a frosty
   morning, flat and blue. The people knew that in his life there
   was something unsavory, that he would drink before the bar with
   worldly friends, and that he was not as honest as he might be.
   His good grammar and fluent utterances did not make amends for
   the unsavoriness of his character. There was another man in that
   congregation who would sometimes come to prayer-meeting with a
   circle of coal-dust around his hair. He was a coal-cart driver,
   and he was now and then so hurried to get to the prayer-meeting
   that he did not make his toilet with as much care as he ought.
   But the people leaned over to listen when he talked. And why?
   Because they knew that he lived every day for God. He would pick
   up a tramp on the road, and give him a mile ride on his cart,
   that he might talk with him about Jesus. His religion tasted
   good. Bad religion in good grammar does not taste good. I would
   rather have good religion in bad grammar, than good grammar in
   bad religion. (Text.)--C. A. DIXON.

    (2528)


                            PROFESSIONALISM

The subtle casuistry of Johnson’s reply in this dialog from Boswell’s
“Life of Johnson” would excuse any amount of lying, if it were only in
the interest of one’s profession.

   Boswell--“But, sir, does not affecting a warmth when you have
   no warmth, and appearing to be clearly of one opinion, when you
   are, in reality, of another opinion--does not such dissimulation
   impair one’s honesty? Is there not some danger that a lawyer may
   put on the same mask in common life, in the intercourse with
   his friends?” Johnson--“Why, no, sir. Everybody knows you are
   paid for affecting warmth for your client; and it is, therefore,
   properly no dissimulation; the moment you come from the bar you
   resume your usual behavior. Sir, a man will no more carry the
   artifice of the bar into the common intercourse of society than
   a man who is paid for tumbling upon his hands will continue
   to tumble upon his hands when he should walk upon his feet.”
   (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (2529)


                                PROFIT

S. E. Kiser expresses in the verse below the thought that our kind
words and deeds are helpful to ourselves, no matter how small their
objective effect:

    You may not profit by my word of cheer,
      The cares you have may weigh upon you still;
    My word of kindness may not dry your tear,
      Nor smooth your path upon the storm-swept hill.

    The word of hope I speak may not impart
      To you the courage that I wish it might;
    But, speaking it, I win new strength of heart
      And make the burden I am bearing light.

    (2530)


                           PROFIT FROM PESTS

   Some points in muskrat-farming are related by a Vermont man
   in the _New England Homestead_ as his own experience. Some
   years ago he dammed a small brook on his farm for the purpose
   of making a trout-pond. The muskrats, however, speedily took
   possession of it and made it their home, from which they
   organized forays into the farmer’s corn-field. This suggested a
   way of getting even. The next year he enlarged his dam, making
   a shallow pond covering four acres of marsh-land of no use for
   crops. The rats appreciated the enlarged accommodations and also
   the marginal corn crop which he planted for their sustenance,
   and did not suspect the wire traps set for them when the water
   should be drawn off.

   After a couple of seasons he considered the quarry sufficiently
   mature to test results. The water was drawn off and the game
   was caught in the netting. A hundred of the largest and
   darkest of the captives were returned to the pond for breeding
   purposes, while more than four hundred were put under tribute
   of their pelts. The result was more than enough to pay for the
   construction and labor, and he expects a much larger return
   of better fur next year. Hundreds of New England farms have
   brook-fed marshes that could be utilized to equal advantage.

   The fur market is a rising one; more in proportion, perhaps,
   for cheap furs than for the more expensive. The trolley and
   automobile have increased the demand enormously. The people who
   buy rich furs are constantly becoming more numerous, and they
   have their imitators among the many who can afford only the
   lower grades.--Boston _Transcript_.

    (2531)


   =Prognosis, Cure in=--See WOUNDS, CURIOUS.


                      PROGNOSTICATION OF WEATHER

Character has its signs, often accurately read by the simple-hearted
man, as easily as farmers foretell the weather.

   “I reckon we’ll have to stop hay-carting to-morrow,” said a
   laborer to me one splendid cloudless July day.

   “Why?”

   “’Cause I heerd one o’ them old woodpeckers hallerin’ fit to
   bust hisself while I was a-gettin’ my dinner.”

   Next morning the daily paper spoke of settled fine weather, but
   the rustic was right--it rained heavily. He was a man utterly
   uneducated, who, without reference to any scientific instrument,
   could forecast the morrow’s weather with accuracy, when the
   meteorological office, with all its appliances, was at fault.
   “Hinery” was only a specimen of hundreds of his fellows who can
   predict to-morrow’s (and often longer) weather with unerring
   accuracy, merely from noticing common details of natural
   phenomena open to every one.--_Cassell’s Magazine._

    (2532)


                               PROGRESS

Faith in divine progress is exprest in these verses by John Philo
Trowbridge:

    The eternal truth of God moves on
      In undisputed sway,
    While all the narrow creeds of men
      Decline and pass away.

    The eternal light of God shines on
      Beneath an eternal sky,
    Tho human luminations cease,
      And human watch-fires die.

    But faith still mounts the endless years,
      And truth grows lovelier still,
    And light shines in upon the soul
      From some immortal hill.

    (2533)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Professor Guyot, of Princeton, says that progress in the world
   is like the development of plant life. It has three periods
   of growth. The first is that in the soil--growth by the root.
   The second is more accelerated--growth by the stem. The third
   is the most rapid of all--growth by the blossom and fruit. The
   world has been growing by the root, obscurely, lingeringly,
   slowly. It is growing by the stem now, very much faster. It is
   beginning to break into the blossom and fruit, when progress
   will be wonderful compared with our past experience in all other
   periods.--HENRY WARD BEECHER.

    (2534)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Modern ministers, while they should not be stagnantly
   conservative, are sometimes apt to make too little allowance for
   the inveterate habits in old saints of clinging to the past.
   These old saints in many cases can not easily get into line with
   the word “go.” They are not prepared for new eras of thought or
   the inauguration of new epochs. Hume destroyed the faith of his
   mother and made it a wreck. Arterial sclerosis is a hardening
   of the walls of the arteries, so that they become unable to
   bear the pressure of the blood when impelled by the heart under
   excitement. A similar process of hardening of the avenues of
   mental operations characterizes many excellent folk in old age.

    (2535)

   See IMPROVEMENT.


   =Progress, a Sign of=--See SURGERY, IMPROVEMENT IN.


                       PROGRESS BY DISPLACEMENT

   It is estimated that more than 20,000 families, aggregating
   100,000 persons, have been driven from their homes by the steady
   transformation of New York City which is now near completion.
   The destruction of homes has not been confined to one locality,
   nor has it come as the result of one event. Every large
   undertaking has contributed its quota of persons whose homes
   literally have been pulled down about their heads.

   This transformation is most conspicuous at the approaches to
   the new bridges across the East River, in the erection of new
   and stupendous railroad terminals, the encroachment of modern
   business buildings upon residence property, and the widening of
   streets.

It is the law of progress that the old shall be displaced by the new
and better.

    (2536)

   =Progress by Ideals=--See IDEALS AND PROGRESS.


   =Progress by Necessity=--See NECESSITY AND PROGRESS.


   =Progress by Struggle=--See STRUGGLE.


   =Progress, Keeping Pace with=--See MODERNITY.


   =Progress, Lack of=--See MOTION WITHOUT PROGRESS.


                           PROGRESS, MODERN

The late Professor Dolbear, of Tuft’s College, summed up the progress
of the nineteenth century as follows:

   The nineteenth century received from its predecessor the horse;
   we bequeath the locomotive, the bicycle, and the automotor.
   We received the scythe; we bequeathed the mowing-machine. We
   received the painter’s brush; we bequeathed lithography, the
   camera, and color photography. We received twenty-three chemical
   elements; we bequeathed eighty. We received the sailing ship;
   we bequeathed the magnificent steamships which are the glory
   of Belfast and of Ireland. We received the beacon signal-fire;
   we bequeathed the telephone and wireless telegraphy. Best of
   all, we received unalleviable pain, and we bequeathed aseptics,
   chloroform, ether, and cocaine. We received an average duration
   of life for thirty years; we bequeathed forty years. (Text.)

    (2537)


   =Progress of Indians=--See INDIANS, AMERICAN.


   =Progress Resisted=--See DROUGHT, RESPONSIBILITY FOR.


                            PROGRESS, TRUE

Surely we should judge of a man’s progress by inquiring what he has
been rather than by his present stage alone:

   Men march toward civilization in column formation, and by
   the time the van has learned to admire the masters the rear
   is drawing reluctantly away from the totem-pole. Anywhere in
   the middle you may find a veneration for china pugdogs or an
   enthusiasm for Marie Corelli--still an advance. Literary people
   seem to think that every time a volume of Hall Caine is sold,
   Shakespeare is to that extent neglected. It merely means that
   some semisavage has reached the Hall Caine stage, and we should
   wish him godspeed on his way to Shakespeare. It is only when a
   pretended Shakespeare man lapses into Hall Cainery that one need
   be excited.--FRANK MOORE COLBY, “Imaginary Obligations.”

    (2538)


                          PROGRESS UNFINISHED

   To the end of his life, the student whose frame remains
   unshaken, writes on morals and history, on science and on fine
   art, and his inquiries in all the departments of nature are
   marked by as keen and strenuous an enthusiasm as when in his
   youth he traversed the hills and the valleys on foot. Each
   process becomes but a basis for higher ones; and each successful
   and wide research but opens the path to new discoveries. As
   the skiff which the boy builds grows at last to the steamship,
   and the hut of the pioneer to the palace which the citizen
   rears and adorns--while yet neither of these is felt to be
   final with him, or adequate to the highest conception he can
   form--so the thought of the child expands and accumulates to
   the science of manhood, and still is admitted insufficient and
   transient.--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (2539)


                              PROHIBITION

   Of course, the experienced drinker can buy liquor in a
   prohibition State like Maine. Let me say to any old toper
   present, going to Portland for his summer vacation, that he
   can find a drink by going into a side street, slipping down
   a dark alley, rapping three times at a door, wriggling up a
   back stairway, and by much twisting, convolution and squirming
   like a serpent, find what he desires. But boys and girls will
   grow up without the temptation of the open saloon. Of course,
   prohibition is not ideal. Making man temperate by law is a
   makeshift. There are men who have not been drunk for ten
   years--they are in Sing Sing.

   Perhaps, however, if you can not keep some men from committing
   crime in any other way, it is best to build a stone wall
   around them. The ideal thing is law enthroned in the heart, an
   automatic commandment in the brain and will. But the necessary
   thing for poorly born people may be legal restraints.--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (2540)

       *       *       *       *       *

An English writer refers thus to some impressions of a brother
Englishman, traveling through the United States:

   When traveling through the United States some years ago, he was
   much struck with the difference in appearance of the houses in
   districts where the Maine liquor law was in force, and soon
   learned to distinguish where it was adopted, by the clean,
   cheerful look of the workmen’s dwellings, the neatness of the
   gardens, and the presence of trees and flowers which, in other
   districts, were wanting. He was not a teetotaler himself,
   and was not advocating such restrictions; but he could not
   help noticing the contrast; and he felt sure that in all our
   large towns great progress in civilization and morals would
   be effected if such an attraction were offered to the working
   classes.

It is another of the long line of illustrations showing the intimate
connection between moral and material weal.

    (2541)


                      PROHIBITION ARGUED AGAINST

At the fiftieth annual convention of the United States Brewers’
Association, the following absurdity was submitted as part of a report:

   The whole vegetable world is in a conspiracy against the
   prohibitionist. The bees become intoxicated with the
   distillation of the honeysuckle; the wasps grow dizzy in the
   drowsy clover-patch, and even the ants wobble in their walk
   after they have feasted upon the overripe fruit fallen from
   the tree, which has started a natural fermentation.--New York
   _Evening Post_.

    (2542)


                      PROHIBITION AS A BENEFACTOR

   “A Swedish teacher going abroad for study,” writes the
   Karlstadt _Tidning_, “gave a patriotic lecture in the cabin of
   a North Sea steamer to Swedish emigrants. After it was over a
   nice-looking young fellow came up to him and said: ‘Greet the
   dear old land for me when you return. I should never leave it
   if the prohibition rescript continued in force. You see, I am a
   drinking man, tho I have a wife and children to care for. I have
   a good employment always open to me in Stockholm, but I don’t
   dare take it. For a whole month under prohibition I have been a
   free and happy man. If it had continued I should have stayed in
   Sweden, but now I am making for some American prohibition State
   where I can’t get drink.’ And he was not the only one. Other
   passengers said the same thing. The five weeks had brought hope
   into their life and they were going where the law helped them
   rather than crusht them.”--_The Christian Statesman._

    (2543)


                         PROMISE, AN INDIAN’S

   “Sonny” Smith, charged with the murder of Frank Miller, sat in
   the sheriff’s office at Tulsa, Okla. His two sons were fugitives
   from justice on the same charge.

   “Let me go,” pleaded the half-breed Creek Indian to the sheriff
   of the county, “and I will go and bring in the two boys you are
   looking for. If you do not let me go you will never catch those
   boys.”

   Sheriff Newblock smiled grimly.

   “What guarantee have I if I let you go after the boys that you
   will come back? You know you are charged with a capital offense.”

   “You have the word of an Indian that he will come back,” replied
   the half-breed. And the sheriff, with a knowledge of Indian
   character, let “Sonny” go as a special commissioner to hunt his
   own boys in the swamps and hills and bring them in.

   As time passed there was much grumbling in the community that
   the sheriff had let a cold-blooded murderer loose among the
   people. The victim was a young man, popular in the town and
   connected with the best families in the country. But on the
   fifth day “Sonny” appeared with his two sons and their wives and
   all the rest of the kin of the tribe of Smith.

   “Here I am,” he announced proudly, “and here are my two boys,
   whom I arrested in the swamps of the Arkansas, close to
   Muskogee. I would have written to let you know I was on the
   trail, but the most of the time I was away from the railroad
   lines and could not quit the trail long enough to mail you a
   postal. And if there is anything against me I am going to stay
   here and fight it out.”

    (2544)


   =Promise, Failing=--See EARLY PROMISE.


                          PROMISE, INVIOLABLE

The following is one of Dwight L. Moody’s illustrations, with the
exhortation that followed it:

   It is recorded in history that some years ago a man was
   condemned to be put to death. When he came to lay his head on
   the block, the prince who had charge of the execution asked him
   if there was any one petition that he could grant him. All that
   the condemned man asked for was a glass of water. They went and
   got him a tumbler of water, but his hand trembled so that he
   could not get it to his mouth. The prince said to him, “Your
   life is safe until you drink that water.” He took the prince
   at his word, and dashed the water to the ground. They could
   not gather it up, and so he saved his life. My friend, you can
   be saved now by taking God at His word. The water of life is
   offered to “whosoever will.” Take it now, and live. May God give
   you grace to do so this moment! Let feelings go! Say in your
   heart, “I do believe, I will believe, I now believe on the Lord
   Jesus Christ with all my heart,” and life everlasting is yours!

    (2545)


                          PROMISED LAND, THE

These verses are part of a longer poem by Michael Lynch:

    So we sailed and sailed over stormy seas, till we came to a
      pleasant land,
    Where forever were peace and happiness, and plenty was on each
      hand;
    And no man wronged his brother there, for no man counted it gain
    To live by the sweat of another’s brow, or to joy at another’s
      pain,

           *       *       *       *       *

    And the strong man there was a kindly man and aided the one who was
      weak,
    And for those who were simple and trusting men their wiser brothers
      would speak;
    And creed, or color, or land, or birth, caused no man to hate
      another,
    For the same red blood filled each man’s veins, and every man was a
      brother.

           *       *       *       *       *

    And the old man there was a blessed man, for toilless he wanted
      nought,
    And vice and toil on the little ones no longer their ruin wrought;
    And the feeble in body and mind had there no longer a care for
      bread;
    For out of the plenty that was for all, ’twas theirs the first to
      be fed.

           *       *       *       *       *

    And peace was forever in that fair land, for no man envied his
      mate,
    And no man’s treasures, where all were rich, woke his brother’s
      sleeping hate,
    And the kingdom that Christ had promised was now for all men to
      see,
    And the name of that happy kingdom was, “The land of the soon be
      be.”
    (Text.)

    (2546)


                               PROMISES

   “Oh, grandpa,” said Charlie, “see how white the apple-trees are
   with blossoms.”

   “Yes,” replied grandpa; “if the tree keeps its promises, there
   will be plenty of apples; but if it is like some boys I know
   there may not be any.”

   “What do you mean by keeping its promises?” Charley inquired.

   “Why,” returned grandpa, “blossoms are only the tree’s promises,
   just as the promises little boys make sometimes are blossoms.
   Sometimes the frost nips these blossoms, both on the tree and in
   the boy.”

   “I see,” Charlie remarked; “then you think when I promise to be
   a better boy, I am only in blossom. But I’ll show you that the
   frost can’t nip my blossoms.”--_The Young Evangelist._

    (2547)

       *       *       *       *       *

Dr. Alexander MacLaren writes as follows about following the promises:

   In the crooked alleys of Venice there is a thin thread of red
   stone inlaid in the pavement or wall which guides through all
   the devious turnings to the plaza, in the center where the great
   church stands. As long as we have the red line of promise on the
   path faith may follow it, and it will lead to God. (Text.)

    (2548)


                           PROMISES, BROKEN

   I remember when I lived in Brooklyn there used to be a fence
   around the City Hall. A man used to stand there, grasping the
   iron railing in his hand, and looking up at the clock, every
   day at noon; and when it struck 12, he would count each stroke
   and look about him, his face full of joy and hope. But after
   two or three minutes the light would fade out of his eyes, and
   he would be turned into an old man, and would drag his feet
   slowly away. For nine years he did this, until death took him.
   I was told that at some great business crisis of his life a
   man had promised to bring him some hundreds of dollars at a
   particular time, to rescue him from failure. The man did not
   come, and he found out he never intended to come; and the
   great disappointment shattered his brain, and day after day he
   was at the City Hall, looking for the man who never came. The
   guilt of human hearts has made men give promises to get rid
   of importunate persons. Some of us have become cynics because
   we have found men so ready to promise falsely.--D. A.
   GOODSELL.

    (2549)


                           PROMISES, IMPLIED

A promise may sometimes be binding on the conscience even when not made
in specific terms:

   M. Fallieres was presiding at a banquet at Agen, when a piece
   of money dropt from his waistcoat pocket to the floor. His
   neighbor said: “I think you have let fall a 2f. piece.” But
   he replied, “Let it be; that will be a lucky find for the
   waiter,” and he called the latter, whispering to him to look
   out for a 2f. piece, which he would find somewhere under his
   seat on the floor. Toward the end of dinner M. Fallieres was
   seen by his neighbor to be feeling with a preoccupied air in
   his waistcoat pockets. As he rose he looked round, fancied he
   was not observed, and gently let a 2f. piece slide down to the
   floor. His neighbor, who had noticed the strange proceeding,
   asked M. Fallieres afterward if he would tell him what it meant.
   “The fact is,” Mr. Fallieres answered, “that I remembered that
   I keep only coppers in my left-hand pocket, from which the
   piece dropt that you supposed was 2f., whereas it must have
   been only 2 sous. So I took out of my right pocket, in which I
   keep my silver, another coin, which that time really was a 2f.
   piece, and dropt it for the waiter to find. I did not want to
   disappoint the man after telling him, you see.” (Text.)

    (2550)


                       PROMOTION, HINDRANCES TO

   He watched the clock.

   He was always grumbling.

   He was always behindhand.

   He asked too many questions.

   His stock excuse was “I forgot.”

   He wasn’t ready for the next step.

   He did not put his heart into his work.

   He learned nothing from his blunders.

   He was content to be a second-rate man.

   He chose his friends among his inferiors.

   He ruined his ability by half-doing things.

   He never dared to act on his own judgment.

   He did not think it worth while to learn how.

   He thought it clever to use coarse and profane language.

   He imitated the habits of men who could stand more than he could.

   He did not learn that the best part of his salary was not in his
   pay envelop.--_Success._

    (2551)


                                 PROOF

   A Christian Korean who had his hair cut like a Japanese was met
   by a company of his fellow countrymen who were out looking for
   Japanese sympathizers. They accused him of being a traitor, but
   he insisted that he was not--that he was a Christian. “Have
   you a Bible and a hymn-book?” they demanded. He produced them.
   “Repeat the Lord’s Prayer.” He did so. “The Ten Commandments and
   the Apostles Creed; sing the Doxology.” The Christian was ready
   with all these, and his captors were satisfied and released him.
   (Text.)

    (2552)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Dr. Ogden, professor of geology at Cambridge, had taken a fancy
   to a lad, who had been in his service for some years, and used
   to manage the garden with great cleverness and skill, much to
   the admiration of his employer. The doctor, however, came, after
   a few years, to notice that his favorite cherry-tree never
   seemed to yield any presentable fruit in due season. At last,
   one year, some twelve cherries seemed to be approaching the long
   coveted fruition; but as the doctor was returning from a ride
   one day, what should he behold but these pet cherries gone! He
   accused the boy rather abruptly and warmly, but the latter with
   equal warmth replied, “I have not touched them, as true as God’s
   in heaven.” The doctor at once went to his closet, told the boy
   to wait, and gave him a strong dose of antimonial wine as a sort
   of treat. The boy, who was kept in some conversation, soon began
   to be uneasy, and wanted to go, saying he felt unwell. “No, no,
   my lad,” said the doctor; “sit thee still, I’ll soon make thee
   better of that,” and gave him a glass of warm water from a basin
   also at his elbow. Very soon nature was irresistible. The boy
   hiccuped, looked pale, and up came all the cherries.--CROAKE
   JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (2553)


                          PROOF BY EXPERIENCE

In a military journal is related this incident of the ill-starred
voyage of the Russian fleet to Eastern waters:

   One day, during some gunnery practise, Admiral Rozhestvensky was
   greatly angered by the poor display made by a certain vessel,
   which he boarded in a towering rage. “Who is in command here?”
   he asked excitedly. “I am, sir,” replied an officer, stepping
   forward. “Consider yourself under arrest,” said Rozhestvensky;
   “your men are trained disgracefully.” “It is not my fault,”
   answered the officer. “Our shells won’t explode.” “I’ll soon see
   whether you are right,” thundered the admiral, and, taking up a
   small shell, he lit the fuse and held it out at arm’s length. If
   that shell had burst, both men would have been blown to atoms.
   But the fuse spluttered out, and the admiral remarked simply,
   “You are right. The fault is not yours. I will see to it that
   you have proper shells in future.”

The expedient of the admiral was exceedingly dangerous, but it was
highly effective. This proof admits of no gainsaying. (Text.)

    (2554)


   =Proof, Sufficient=--See EVIDENCE, CHRISTIAN.


   =Propagation=--See IMPROVEMENT.


   =Propagation of Life=--See LIFE, SELF-PROPAGATING.


                        PROPAGATION OF THE GOOD

Great minds that are full of light; great hearts that are full of
love--their light will go out into the ends of the earth, and their
shining unto the ends of the world.

   A recent history of the steam engine says Stephenson knew “that
   if he could get his engine perfected, the rest would take care
   of itself.” Certainly! That man who discovered the lucifer match
   did not have to force it upon poor men, shivering in the cold
   and frost of winter. When James Watt has an engine that will
   lift coal out of a mine, he does not have to insist that it
   be accepted by laborers bowed to the very ground by sacks of
   mineral. Let Gutenberg get his printing-press, and all these
   copyists, weary of writing, and the millions of men hungry for
   knowledge, will greet his printed page with shouts and cheers.
   Get your seedless orange, and it will take feet unto itself
   and travel over the world. Get the new palm, the new peach or
   pear, and millions will stretch out their hands pleading for
   it. Get Luther--the new Germany will follow. Get Livingstone,
   and the Dark Continent will soon be full of light. Get your
   Pilgrim Fathers--the republic will tread closely upon their
   heels. Get your twelve apostles, and you will soon have a New
   Jerusalem, a new Antioch, a new Ephesus, a new Rome. Get your
   new Pentecost for the American churches, and you will have a
   new era and a golden age of industrial peace and commercial
   prosperity.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2555)


                         PROPAGATION, PROLIFIC

   The May-flies, in their flying stage, make up for their
   frailness and feebleness, their inability to feed--they have
   really no mouth-parts and do not eat at all in their few hours
   or days of flying life--by existing in enormous numbers, and
   millions may be killed, or may die from very feebleness,
   and yet there are enough left to lay the eggs necessary for
   a new generation, and that is success in life for them.
   Nothing else is necessary. Their whole aim and achievement in
   life seems to be to lay eggs and start a new generation of
   May-flies.--VERNON L. KELLOGG, “Insect Stories.”

    (2556)


   =Property, Church=--See CHURCH STATISTICS.


   =Property, Unvalued=--See APPRECIATION, LACK OF.


                               PROPHECY

   There have been many uninspired prophets, but Joan of Arc was
   the only one who ever ventured the daring detail of naming,
   along with a foretold event, the event’s precise nature,
   the special time-limit within which it would occur, and the
   place--and scored fulfilment. At Vauchouleurs she said she must
   go to the king and be made his general, and break the English
   power, and crown her sovereign--at “Reims.” It all happened.
   It was all to happen “next year”--and it did. She foretold her
   first wound and its character and date a month in advance, and
   the prophecy was recorded in a public record book three weeks
   in advance. She repeated it the morning of the date named, and
   it was fulfilled before night. At Tours she foretold the limit
   of her military career--saying it would end in one year from
   the time of its utterance--and she was right. She foretold her
   martyrdom--using that word, and naming a time three months
   away--and again she was right. At a time when France was
   hopelessly and permanently in the hands of the English she twice
   asserted in her prison before her judges that within seven years
   the English would meet with a mightier disaster than had been
   the fall of Orleans. It happened within five--the fall of Paris.
   Other prophecies of hers came true, both as to the event named
   and the time limit prescribed. (Text.)--MARK TWAIN,
   _Harper’s Magazine_.

    (2557)

       *       *       *       *       *

In the “Autobiography” of Albert Pell, that fine old English gentleman
whose whole life was devoted to the reform of the English poor-laws
and to the general uplifting and improvement of the condition, moral,
social and political, of the English agricultural laborer, it is
related that one of the first well-known men whom he met as a small boy
was Wilberforce, who used to stay with his father, Sir Albert Pell, in
the country.

   When one of Pell’s friends was an infant in arms, his nurse was
   swept by an election mob to the very foot of the York hustings
   at a famous contest for the county in which Wilberforce was
   one of the principal actors. With all the earnestness and vigor
   which distinguished him he was pressing his beneficent views on
   the abolition of slavery.

   Carried away by the depths of his convictions and enthusiastic
   inspiration, he reached over the balcony, and snatching the baby
   from the arms of its astonished nurse, held it up over his head
   in the face of the people, exclaiming:

   “See this and hear my prophecy! Before this child dies there
   will not be a white man in the world owning a slave.”

   My friend, adds Mr. Pell, survived the Civil War in the
   United States, and virtually Wilberforce’s prophecy was
   fulfilled.--_The Youth’s Companion._

    (2558)


   =Propitiation, Evil=--See SACRIFICE, PAGAN.


                              PROPORTION

   “I thought it was a pretty fair sort of telescope for one that
   wasn’t very big,” said Uncle Silas. “I rigged it up in the attic
   by the high north window and had it fixt so it would swing
   around easy. I took a deal of satisfaction in looking through
   it, the sky seemed so wide and full of wonders; so when Hester
   was here I thought I’d give her the pleasure, too.

   “She stayed a long time up-stairs and seemed to be enjoying it.
   When she came down I asked her if she’d discovered anything new.

   “‘Yes,’ she says; ‘why, it made everybody’s house seem so near
   that I seemed to be right beside ’em, and I found out what John
   Pritchard’s folks are doin’ in their out-kitchens. I’ve wondered
   what they had a light there for night after night, and I just
   turned the glass on their windows. They are cuttin’ apples to
   dry--folks as rich as them cuttin’ apples!’

   “And actually that was all the woman had seen! With the whole
   heavens before her to study, she had spent her time prying
   into the affairs of her neighbors! And there are lots more
   like her--with and without telescopes.”--_Christian Endeavor
   World._

    (2559)

       *       *       *       *       *

The necessity of having right proportion between the place and the
occasion is illustrated by the following:

   The only musical sounds which really master vast spaces like the
   Albert Hall are those of a mighty organ or an immense chorus.

   The Handel Festival choruses are fairly proportioned to
   the Crystal Palace, but on one occasion, when a terrific
   thunder-storm burst over Sydenham in the middle of “Israel
   in Egypt,” every one beneath that crystal dome felt that,
   acoustically, the peal of thunder was very superior to the whole
   power of the chorus, because the relation between the space to
   be filled and the volume of sound required to fill it was in
   better proportion.--H. R. HAWEIS, “My Musical Memories.”

    (2560)


   =Proportion Distorted by Fatigue=--See FATIGUE.


   =Proportion, Sense of=--See FATIGUE.


                               PROPRIETY

   During the battle of Waterloo a British artillery officer rode
   up to the Duke of Wellington and said, “Your Grace, I have a
   distinct view of Napoleon, attended by his staff; my guns are
   well pointed in that direction; shall I open fire?” The duke
   replied, “Certainly not; I will not allow it; it is not the
   business of commanders to fire upon each other.”--EDWARD
   COTTON, “A Voice from Waterloo.”

    (2561)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The home is where the missionary spends most of the time during
   the first year. A native of the country to which you go comes
   in to call, and the first thing noticed may be pictures upon
   your walls. They may or may not violate the sense of propriety
   of your caller, but in general one may say that statues, or
   any pictures approaching the nude, are decidedly out of taste.
   I recall coming in one Sunday and finding Mrs. Beach hard
   at work. She was painting, and as we had been brought up as
   Presbyterians, I was surprized to see her working on Sunday.
   “Well,” she said, “I must go out to my Sunday-school, and the
   last time I went they struck. I have been teaching the story
   of Joseph, and these cartoons of the Religious Tract Society
   of London represent him with bare calves, and the women simply
   will not endure them. I have nothing but water-color paints,
   and I have painted Chinese trousers five times on these legs,
   and they are bare yet.” We used to have picture-cards sent out
   by Sunday-school children to help us on in our work. We had to
   censor those picture-cards, there is no question about that.
   You can not use every kind of picture-card and preach a pure
   gospel.--H. P. BEACH, “Volunteer Student Movement,”
   1906.

    (2562)

   See RELIGIOUS INFRACTIONS OF PROPRIETY.


   =Propriety a Matter of Religion=--See RELIGIOUS INFRACTIONS OF
      PROPRIETY.


   =Propriety and Taste Violated=--See MISSIONARIES’ MISTAKES.


   =Propriety, Lack of=--See ACCOMMODATION.


                     PROPRIETY, OBSERVING RULES OF

   Leaving the home (in China), you go out into the street, and
   what is there that first offends your friends--those whom you
   have come to help? Very possibly it is your dress. You do not
   have enough of it oftentimes. One function of garments is to
   conceal the form, and many modes of dress do not conceal but
   simply reveal it. While we are to remember this, going to the
   other extreme and walking the streets in bathrobe coats is also
   questionable. Anything approaching decolleté would weaken a
   woman’s influence, even if she appeared thus only on a state
   occasion.

   Over against this lack of dress is too much dress, which is
   quite as offensive. I saw the other day a photograph of Governor
   Tuan, one of the two commissioners who have just been visiting
   the United States. He sat in his yamen surrounded by some
   missionaries and other foreigners living in the governor’s
   province. It was a very beautiful picture, but one of the
   missionaries in the group, who was stylishly drest, had a
   cane--a dapper little pipe-stem cane in China! To Governor Tuan
   there could be no rational explanation of that sort of thing.
   If it had been a staff and the missionary had been lame, it
   would have been appropriate. But he was not lame, no beggars
   were allowed in the governor’s yamen, there were no dogs to
   bite him, and why in the world should this man bring a cane?
   It was just as if native Australians were being received by
   President Roosevelt and had brought with them boomerangs.
   Boomerangs have their place, but not in the White House; and to
   swing a cane causes trouble for China missionaries. Glasses are
   a necessity, but the missionary to the Chinese unconsciously
   offends high officials by his glasses, especially if he does
   not remove them when greeting the official. Many, even of the
   older missionaries, do not know such a fact as that.--H. P.
   BEACH, “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (2563)


   =Prosperity and Temperance=--See PROHIBITION.


                    PROSPERITY AS AN ADVERTISEMENT

   The United States Immigration Commission informs the American
   Congress that savings of immigrants to the amount of
   $275,000,000 are annually sent abroad to be used in foreign
   countries, and the commission says in its report: “The sum is
   sent abroad for the purpose of supporting families in foreign
   countries, for bringing other immigrants to the United States,
   for the payment of debts or for savings and investment in the
   countries from which the immigrants come.”

   More than 2,300,000 persons throughout the United States are
   doing an unregulated banking business, handling yearly hundreds
   of millions of dollars, their customers being found wholly among
   immigrant laborers who for the most part do not speak English.

   The money actually sent abroad is thus distributed according to
   countries: Italy, $85,000,000; Austria-Hungary, $75,000,000;
   Russia, including Finland, $25,000,000; Great Britain,
   $25,000,000; Norway, Sweden, and Denmark, $25,000,000; Germany,
   $15,000,000; Greece, $5,000,000; the Balkan States, $5,000,000;
   Japan, $5,000,000; China, $5,000,000; all other countries,
   $5,000,000.

   Even reducing the amount estimated as being too large, there
   must be an immense outflow of money from the United States in
   the direction indicated, and it helps explain why there is an
   excess of commodity exports, averaging $400,000,000 annually,
   over imports, to settle the invisible indebtedness of the
   country abroad.

   The great outflow of cash sent home by immigrants serves one
   useful purpose: it advertises the general prosperity of the
   great republic, and so helps keep up the volume of emigration
   from Europe. A growing country requires people as well as
   capital.

   It has been estimated that every able-bodied immigrant is worth
   to the country $5,000; the Northern republic is receiving nearly
   a million immigrants annually, and allowing that a fifth part
   are workers of sound physique the gain to the United States is
   $1,000,000,000, gold, value a year.--_Mexican Herald._

    (2564)


                         PROSPERITY, PERIL OF

The following extract points a needed caution to those who are blest
with prosperity:

   Some time ago we saw a tree that had been struck by lightning
   and actually rent asunder. It had been blown open as perfectly
   as if the pith of the tree had been lined with gunpowder and
   touched off. The reason for this is easily explained. The tree
   had been struck by lightning before it had been wet by the
   storm. Consequently the lightning bolt followed the line of
   least resistance, which was the damp wood under the bark. The
   electric current heated the sap, and, converting it so quickly
   into steam, the explosion was the result.

   How very like that tree are a great many people! Prosperity
   is the electric current. Coming upon them so suddenly, as is
   so often the case, they are unable to bear the pressure of
   elevation and honor and distinction, and are rent asunder with a
   crash. They “go down” with a thud.

   As the forest tree that has been struck by the killing bolt
   drops only to rot, so does the man who has been overelated by
   prosperity.

    (2565)


                              PROTECTION

   One of the artizan class of Manchester was the owner of a very
   pretty black spaniel dog. The little thing followed him and
   nestled to his side as a child might, and by many endearing
   ways evinced the winsomeness of its disposition. It happened
   that the man was worse for drink, became irritated by the
   affectionate attentions of his dog and vowed he would throw her
   into the lion’s den in Manchester; went there for the purpose,
   and reaching out, took up the little fawning thing and flung
   her through the bars of the cage. The spectators expected that
   the lion with one muscular movement of its paw would stun and
   kill it, but the dog fawned up to the lion and the lion turned
   and licked her. They became good friends, and when presently
   the lion’s food was brought, the dog even snarled at her new
   protector and began to partake first, keeping the lord of
   creation waiting. So it went on for some weeks. The papers were
   full of it; crowds came to see. The news came to the man; he
   repented of his rash act; he went to the gardens and said to
   the keeper, “I want my dog.” The keeper said, “I don’t dare
   to attempt to bring your dog out of the den.” “Oh,” the man
   said, “of course I must have it.” “Well,” said the keeper, “if
   you want it, you must get it yourself.” But when he called to
   the dog, the dog slunk closer to her new protector, and when
   presently he tried to exert force, the lion gave such an ominous
   growl that the man shrank back. From that moment the lion and
   the dog lived together, and any attempt made to extricate the
   dog was met instantly by the low growl of the lion.

You have been too long the slave of lusts, of passion, of pride, of
sin. I want you to get under the covert of the Lion of the tribe of
Judah, and then if your old enemy shall endeavor to induce you and get
you back, remember that the Lion of the tribe of Judah is going to
interpose between you and your old master.--F. B. MEYER.

    (2566)

       *       *       *       *       *

There are ways of escaping evil influences, just as there are of
protecting oneself from sunstroke:

   Attention is called in the New York _Medical Journal_ to
   the fact that sunstroke is due to the chemical, and not to the
   heat rays, as generally supposed. The writer’s argument is based
   on “the fact that no one ever gets heat-stroke from exposure to
   a dark source of heat, and when there is an absence of chemical
   rays. The actinic rays are the dangerous ones. They will pass
   through anything except an interposed color filter. It is
   therefore necessary, in order to ward off sunstroke, to treat
   the body as a photographer treats his plates, and surround it
   with red or yellow. He mentions the case of an Egyptian army
   officer, who had had several sunstrokes, and avoided further
   difficulty of the kind during five years’ exposure by lining his
   helmet and coat with yellow. (Text.)

    (2567)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The queer Chinese change pigeons into song-birds by fastening
   whistles to their breasts. The wind of their flight then causes
   a weird and plaintive music that is seldom silenced in the
   pigeon-haunted cities of Peking and Canton. The Belgians, great
   pigeon-fliers, fasten whistles beneath the wings of valuable
   racing carriers, claiming that the shrill noise is a sure
   protection against hawks and other birds of prey. As a similar
   protection, reeds, emitting an odd wailing sound, are fixt to
   the tail-feathers of the dispatch-bearing pigeons of the German
   army.

Hannibal’s army withdrew from Rome, it is said, at the sound of a
tumultuous laughter inside the walls. Luther said: “The devil hates
music.” (Text.)

    (2568)

       *       *       *       *       *

Paul speaks of a breast-plate even more secure than that mentioned in
the extract:

   The authors who tell us of the conquests of Cortez say that to
   protect his soldiers from the arrows of the Mexicans, which
   could pierce the cuirasses of hammered iron that they wore, he
   replaced these with thick breast-plates of wool prest between
   two layers of linen. In fact, he practically covered his men
   with mattresses, and they were thus enabled to defy the arrows
   and lances of the Mexicans. (Text.)--Dr. BATTANDIER,
   _Cosmos_.

    (2569)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The birds were the red- and blue-headed parrakeets. When
   frightened they always flew to a curious tree which, tho bare
   of leaves, was sparsely covered with an odd-looking, long, and
   four-sided fruit of a green color. Under such circumstances
   they alighted all together, and unlike their usual custom of
   perching in pairs, they scattered all over the tree, stood very
   upright, and remained motionless. From a distance of fifty feet
   it was impossible to distinguish parrakeet from fruit, so close
   was the resemblance. A hawk dashed down once and carried away a
   bird, but the others remained as still as if they were inanimate
   fruit. This silent trust in the protective resemblance of the
   green fruit was most remarkable, when we remembered the frantic
   shrieks which these birds always set up at the approach of
   danger, when they happened to be caught away from one of these
   parrot-fruit trees.--OLIVE THORNE MILLER, “The Bird Our
   Brother.”

    (2570)

   See NATURE’S PROTECTION.

       *       *       *       *       *

   In the tropics of Mexico, where torrential rains fall a part of
   each year, raincoats are a very necessary part of man’s apparel.
   Owing to the intense heat which prevails in the summer season,
   the ordinary rubber raincoat can not be worn. A rain-proof
   coat is made from native grasses. The grasses are woven close
   together, and it is impossible for the rain to beat through
   them, no matter how hard the storm may be. It would be the
   height of folly for a man in that part of Mexico to fail in
   providing himself with this most necessary part of his raiment.
   “The fiery darts of the wicked one” may be shed by a certain
   breast-plate mentioned by Paul.

    (2571)


                          PROTECTION, UNSEEN

   A butterfly was once seen behind a window-pane fluttering in
   fear of a sparrow outside that was pecking at it in an attempt
   to get at its victim, which, after all, was beyond the sparrow’s
   reach.

That window-pane was an unseen protector. (Text.)

    (2572)


   =Protective Coloration=--See NATURE’S PROTECTION.


   =Protective Occupations=--See DISEASE, EXEMPTION FROM.


                      PROVIDENTIAL INTERPOSITION

   I had an experience a while ago on a Chautauqua platform that I
   never shall forget.

   It was a very large assembly, and it was held in a place where
   I had never been before, and where I had no old friends on hand
   to serve as “claqueurs.” I discovered very soon after beginning
   my lecture that for some unaccountable reason I was not _en
   rapport_ with my audience, who listened to me, as it were,
   out of the corners of their eyes and with half-averted faces.

   I felt instinctively that that lecture was foredoomed to failure
   unless in some way Providence interposed for my deliverance.

   Well, Providence did; for presently a big dog entered the
   auditorium, and gazed wistfully about him. Then, facing the
   platform and seeing me hard at work, he compassionately
   concluded to come up and help me. And on he came, straight up
   the aisle, and climbed the platform steps, while everybody
   watched him.

   He walked around me, sized me up, and then deliberately planted
   himself in front of me, sat down, and pricked up his ears like a
   pulpit committee listening to a candidate.

   I ceased addressing the audience, and, turning to the dog, I
   said: “I am delighted to welcome you to this platform. I have
   been anxiously waiting for you, and had begun to fear that
   you would not be here. You have come to the kingdom for just
   this time, and I am happy to discover that in this large and
   evidently critical audience I have at last found one hearer who
   has sense enough to appreciate a good thing when he hears it.”

   The dog seemed to understand that he was addrest; and so he
   howled, and then the people howled, and I went on howling. The
   dog went his way without ever knowing that he saved my life that
   day.--P. S. HENSON, _Christian Endeavor World_.

    (2573)


   =Providential Rescue=--See KONGO PIONEER MISSIONARY WORK.


   =Providing Against Disaster=--See CONTROL OF CIRCUMSTANCES.


   =Providing for Great Men=--See GREAT MEN SHOULD BE PROVIDED FOR.


                              PROVIDENCE

Men who know all the risks attending an unguided machine going eighty
miles an hour will calmly tell you that a planetary system moving
thousands of times as fast needs no guidance of God.

   When these racing motor cars reach a speed of eighty miles an
   hour, they must drive themselves, for no human brain is capable
   of dealing with all the emergencies that may arise should
   that rate be maintained for any period worth speaking of. The
   human animal is not designed to travel eighty miles an hour.
   Neither the human brain nor the human eye can keep pace with it.
   The brain declines to respond to the tax upon it; so the big
   racing-car dashes on minus the brain by which it is supposed
   to be controlled, and the unexpected obstruction is smashed
   up, or the car is, before the mental activities come into
   play.--FORBES WINSLOW, _The Automobile Magazine_.

    (2574)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Grant planned, but a power unseen disposed. It was his firm
   purpose not to remain in the army. He could not warm up to
   the profession of arms. He saw nothing in it for one of his
   temperament and bent of mind. So he resolved to prepare himself
   for the chair of mathematics in some college, preferably a
   professorship in the military academy. He wrote a letter
   to Professor Church, at West Point, asking to become his
   assistant when the next detail should be made. The answer was
   satisfactory, and the lieutenant was hopeful. He began to review
   his West Point course, but this was as far as he ever got
   toward the goal of his ambition. As the stars in their courses
   fought against Sisera, so the course of events defeated all his
   cherished plans to escape an army life. The trouble with Mexico
   began before Professor Church saw an opportunity to give the
   lieutenant an assistant professorship, and his hope of ever
   being ordered to the academy vanished forever.--NICHOLAS
   SMITH, “Grant, the Man of Mystery.”

    (2575)

   See FAITH AND SUPPORT.


                          PROVIDENCE, DIVINE

Wordsworth expresses the thought of an infinite and beneficent power
guiding the affairs of men in the following lines:

          One adequate support
    For the calamities of mortal life
    Exists--one only; an assured belief
    That the procession of our fate, howe’er
    Sad or disturbed, is ordered by a Being
    Of infinite benevolence and power
    Whose everlasting purposes embrace
    All accidents, converting them to good.

    (2576)


   =Providence, Unswerving=--See STEADINESS OF PROVIDENCE.


                             PROVINCIALISM

   Provincialism is local pride unduly inflated. It is the temper
   that is ready to hail as a Swan of Avon any local gosling who
   has taught himself to make an unnatural use of his own quills.
   It is always tempting us to stand on tiptoe to proclaim our
   own superiority. It prevents our seeing ourselves in proper
   proportion to the rest of the world. It leads to the preparation
   of school manuals in which the threescore years and ten of
   American literature are made equal in importance to the thousand
   years of literature produced in Great Britain. It tends to
   render a modest writer, like Longfellow, ridiculous by comparing
   him implicitly with the half-dozen world poets. In the final
   resort, no doubt, every people must be the judge of its own
   authors; but before that final judgment is rendered every people
   consults the precedents, and measures its own local favorites
   by the cosmopolitan and eternal standards.--BRANDER
   MATTHEWS.

    (2577)


                      PROVOCATION, SILENCE UNDER

   I have read somewhere the following arrangement for avoiding
   quarrels: “You see, sir,” said an old man, speaking of a couple
   who lived in perfect harmony in his neighborhood, “they’d agreed
   between themselves that whenever he came home a little contrary
   and out of temper, he wore his hat on the back of his head, and
   then she never said a word; and if she came in a little cross
   and crooked, she threw her shawl over her left shoulder, and
   then he never said a word.” As it takes two to make a quarrel,
   either the husband or the wife might often prevent one by
   stepping out of the room at the nick of time; by endeavoring to
   divert attention and conversation from the burning question; by
   breathing an instantaneous prayer to God for calmness before
   making any reply; in a word, by learning to put in practise on
   certain occasions the science of silence. Robert Burton tells
   of a woman who, hearing one of her “gossips” complain of her
   husband’s impatience, told her an excellent remedy for it. She
   gave her a glass of water which, when he brawled, she should
   hold still in her mouth. She did so two or three times with
   great success, and, at length, seeing her neighbor, she thanked
   her for it, and asked to know the ingredients. She told her that
   it was “fair water” and nothing more; for it was not the water,
   but her silence which performed the cure. (Text.)--J. E.
   HARDY, _The Quiver_.

    (2578)


   =Pruning=--See IGNORANCE, THE COST OF; SOUL SURGERY.


                          PRUNING TO DESTROY

   Said Luther: “Sin is like the beard, the oftener it is cut off,
   the more shaving seems to be necessary!”

   Perennial weeds continue to live and bear seeds from year to
   year. Some weeds of this class, as the quack-grass, sow-thistle,
   and the wild morning-glory, multiply from buds on underground
   parts as well as by seeds. They are the hardest of all to
   destroy. As the leaves manufacture the food that nourishes
   roots, by preventing the leaves from growing, the roots will
   starve--the surest way to kill perennial weeds, tho often hard
   to carry out. (Text.)

    (2579)


   =Psychical Activity=--See MULTIPLE CONSCIOUSNESS.


   =Psychology in Penology=--See CHILDREN, SAVING.


   =Psychology of Suggestion=--See NEGATIVE TEACHING.


                            PUBLIC SPEAKING

   A greenhorn, who had never seen a great banquet, came to the
   city, and, looking through the door, said to his friends who
   were showing him the sights: “Who are those gentlemen who are
   eating so heartily?” The answer was: “They are the men who pay
   for the dinner.” “And who are those gentlemen up there on the
   elevation looking so pale and frightened and eating nothing?”
   “Oh,” said his friend, “those are the fellows who make the
   speeches.”--T. DE WITT TALMAGE.

    (2580)


                               PUBLICITY

   A woman took a pair of gloves to Wanamaker’s not long ago,
   insisting that she bought them there, notwithstanding that the
   head of the department told her the house never carried that
   make of gloves. She insisted, however, and the gloves were taken
   and she was given the money for them. The manager says that he
   knew the woman was telling an untruth, but that he did not want
   to quarrel with her, and he regarded the transaction as a very
   good advertisement for the house, because she would probably
   many times tell her friends how she beat Wanamaker’s, and that
   this publicity would be worth more than the gloves.--_Success
   Magazine._

    (2581)


   =Pulpit Raving=--See HEADS, LOSING.


                            PUNCTILIOUSNESS

   Concerning whistling on Sunday in Scotland, two men, who had
   done a house-breaking job on Saturday night, went on Sunday
   morning into a wood to divide the plunder. One of them began
   to whistle over the sharing out when his companion said, with
   horror: “Hoot, mon, I would no have come out wi’ ye if I had
   known you would whustle on the Sawbath.” (Text.)

    (2582)

       *       *       *       *       *

   When Justice Lovell, a Welsh judge, was traveling over the
   sands at Beaumaris, while going his circuit about 1730, he
   was overtaken at night by the tide, and the coach stuck in a
   quicksand. The water rose in the coach, to the horror of the
   registrar and other officers, who crept out of the windows
   and scrambled on the top behind the coach-box. They urged his
   lordship to do the same, but with great dignity and gravity
   he sat till the water rose to his lips, and then he was just
   able to exclaim, “I will follow your counsel if you can quote
   to me any precedent for a judge mounting on a coach-box.” No
   “authority” could be produced, owing to the darkness of the
   night! (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and
   Lawyers.”

    (2583)


                   PUNCTILIOUSNESS IN LITTLE THINGS

The late Edmund Clarence Stedman told of his experiences as a clerk in
the office of the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad:

   Finding his cash short one day, to the extent of two cents,
   Stedman took the money out of his pocket and dropt it into the
   till. After he had left the employment of the company he met in
   the street one day the treasurer of the company, who asked him
   whether his cash account was right every time while he was with
   the company. When the treasurer’s attention was called to the
   exception he exclaimed, “Confound you, Stedman, we have had the
   whole force of the office at work for weeks trying to find that
   two cents.”

    (2584)


                              PUNCTUALITY

A New York motorman is the subject of the following news item in a
daily paper:

   For the first time in thirty years Robert Willoughby failed to
   wake up this morning when his thirty clocks, simultaneously
   setting off a series of gongs, gave their customary alarms at
   six o’clock. He had died some time during the night of Bright’s
   disease.

   Willoughby was fifty-seven years old and had been employed as a
   motorman by the Third Avenue Elevated Railway. He was the most
   punctual employee in the service. No matter what the weather
   was, Willoughby was never late.

   The secret of his punctuality came to light when his room was
   inspected to-day. Ranged round his bed were thirty clocks of
   different sizes and makes. All struck the same hour at the same
   time.

    (2585)


   =Punishment=--See CRIME EXPOSED.


   =Punishment Escaped=--See DISCIPLINE EVADED.


   =Punishment Fitting Offense=--See PATRIOTISM, LACK OF.


                    PUNISHMENT, FORMER SEVERITY OF

   In the reign of Henry VIII, 72,000 thieves were hanged, being
   at the rate of 2,000 a year. In the reign of George III,
   twenty persons were executed on the same morning in London for
   stealing. In 1785, ninety-seven persons were executed in London
   for stealing from a shop to the value of five shillings or more.
   If the amount were less than five shillings the punishment was
   not capital.

   At the beginning of the nineteenth century the punishment of
   death might be inflicted for more than two hundred crimes. These
   are some of the offenses that were punished with death: Picking
   a man’s pocket, taking a rabbit from a warren, stealing five
   shillings or more from a shop, cutting down a tree, catching and
   stealing a fish, personating a Greenwich pensioner, stealing a
   sheep or horse, harboring an offender against the revenue acts.

    (2586)


   =Punishment in China=--See CRIME EXPOSED.


   =Punishment of Sinners=--See SINNERS AND GOD.


                        PUNISHMENT, PROFITABLE

Oscar Wilde wrote:

   I want to get to the point when I shall be able to say
   quite simply, and without affectation, that the two great
   turning-points in my life were when my father sent me to Oxford,
   and when society sent me to prison. I will not say that prison
   is the best thing that could have happened to me; for that
   phrase would savor of too great bitterness toward myself. I
   would sooner say or hear it said of me that I was so typical a
   child of my age that, in my perversity and for that perversity’s
   sake, I turned the good things of my life to evil, and the evil
   things of my life to good.

   And if I then am not ashamed of my punishment, as I hope not to
   be, I shall be able to think, and walk, and live with freedom.

   In the very fact that people will recognize me wherever I
   go, and know all about my life, as far as its follies go, I
   can discern something good for me. It will force on me the
   necessity of again asserting myself as an artist, and as soon as
   I possibly can. If I can produce only one beautiful work of art
   I shall be able to rob malice of its venom, and cowardice of its
   sneer, and to pluck out the tongue of scorn by the roots. (Text.)

    (2587)


                           PUPILS OF CHRIST

   It is customary for students who have been attending colleges
   and academies to return home during the summer vacation or
   during the Christmas or Easter holidays, when they will recount
   to their father their trials and triumphs in the field of
   literature, and express to him their gratitude for the education
   they receive. They will gladly listen to his counsel, and will
   sit once more with joy at the family table.

   We all are, or we ought to be, pupils of Christ, preparing
   ourselves during this life of probation to receive a
   diploma of sanctity which will admit us to the kingdom of
   heaven.--CARDINAL GIBBONS.

    (2588)


                             PURIFICATION

Moral life is often purified by storms, as the air by a rainy day:

   The health-giving properties of rain are not appreciated by
   the general public. Rain is an essential to physical vigor
   in localities that have any extensive population. Man and
   his occupations load the air with countless and unclassified
   impurities. The generous, kindly rain absorbs them, even as
   a washerwoman extracts the dirt from soiled clothes. The
   ammoniacal exhalations, the gases resultant from combustion and
   decay, are all quietly absorbed by a brisk shower. People talk
   about a “dry climate,” but it is a snare and a delusion. There
   is nothing in it. A very dry climate will never support a large
   population, for it would soon become so poisoned that it would
   be fatal to the human race. A scattering few might inhabit it,
   but not the multitude.--_Colliery Guardian._

    (2589)

       *       *       *       *       *

The life of God, if allowed to sweep through the earth unhindered,
would purify man’s life, as ocean waves, described below, purify the
lands they reach:

   The air of the sea, taken at a great distance from land, or even
   on the shore and in ports when the wind blows from the open sea,
   is in an almost perfect state of purity. Near continents the
   land winds drive before them an atmosphere always impure, but at
   100 kilometers from the coasts this impurity has disappeared.
   The sea rapidly purifies the pestilential atmosphere of
   continents; hence every expanse of water of a certain breadth
   becomes an absolute obstacle to the propagation of epidemics.
   Marine atmospheres driven upon land purify sensibly the air
   of the regions which they traverse; this purification can be
   recognized as far as Paris. The sea is the tomb of molds and of
   aerial schizophytes.--_Public Opinion._

    (2590)

       *       *       *       *       *

Longfellow pictures life as a wave hastening to cleanse itself in the
ocean:

    Whither, thou turbid wave?
    Whither with so much haste,
    As if a thief wert thou?
      I am the Wave of Life
    Stained with my margin’s dust;
      From the struggle and the strife
    Of the narrow stream I fly
    To the sea’s immensity,
    To wash from me the slime
    Of the muddy banks of time.

    (2591)

       *       *       *       *       *

God uses many unseen agencies to offset the moral poisons of the
universe:

   “A device has been perfected by the chemist of the mechanical
   department of the Erie Railroad,” says _The Railway and
   Engineering Review_ (Chicago), “by which all the cars on
   the Chicago limited train are thoroughly sterilized at Jersey
   City after each round trip between Jersey City and Chicago, a
   run of about 2,000 miles. Experiments looking to this method of
   cleaning cars so as to kill all disease germs and destroy all
   bad odors have been in progress for some time. A deodorizing
   apparatus has also been devised which is placed under the
   seats in the cars, out of sight of passengers, and gives off
   an odorless gas, which combines with the stale tobacco-smoke
   or other offensive odors which may accumulate in the cars, and
   serves to completely nullify them. This treatment has been so
   effective that it is expected it will be extended to all the
   passenger cars in the Erie service.”

    (2592)

   See EVIL, PURGING FROM.


                       PURIFICATION BY PRESSURE

The man in narrow circumstances, or prest severely with many cares may
be purified by such pressure like the water described in this extract:

   The best water is that which has gone deepest in the earth,
   where there is the tightest pressure, atmospheric and telluric.
   Continued and intensified filtration has refined it; but it is
   here, and not in its open-air exposure, before or after, that
   the water gets effective oxidation. The remarkable fact that
   water absorbs oxygen in something like a geometrical ratio
   to the increase of pressure, coupled with the other equally
   important fact that under a certain pressure and temperature
   organic germs cease to exist; both these conditions, protracted
   for the water by a long detention in the depths of the earth,
   secure the rarest refinement and also vitalization of the
   element.--_The Sanitary Era._

    (2593)


                         PURITANISM, POETRY OF

   How is it, then, that out of the hard soil of the Puritan
   thought and character, out of the sterile rocks of the New
   England conscience, have sprung flowers of poetry? From those
   songless beginnings have burst, in later generations, melodies
   that charm and uplift our land--now a deep organ peal filling
   the air with music, now a trumpet blast thrilling the blood of
   patriotism, now a drum-beat to which duty delights to march, now
   a joyous fantasy of the violin bringing smiles to the lips, now
   the soft vibrations of the harp that fill the eyes with tears.
   What is it in the Puritan heritage, externally so bare and cold,
   that makes it intrinsically so poetic and inspired?--SAMUEL
   A. ELIOT.

    (2594)


                                PURITY

   A pastor visiting in the home of a laundress exprest admiration
   of the whiteness of the linen hung out upon the lines. They
   gleamed in beautiful purity as compared with the dark slates
   on the roof of the house behind them. But presently snow fell
   and quickly covered the roofs and streets with an absolutely
   unsullied mantle, and now the linen clothes seemed actually
   to have lost all their whiteness. The preacher said to the
   laundress that the clothes did not look anything like so white
   as before. She replied, “Ah, sir, the clothes are just as white
   as they were, but what can stand against God Almighty’s white?”

It is a fact that the whitest sheet of paper looks yellow and dingy
when placed on freshly fallen snow. So looks the morality of ordinary
man beside the sinlessness of Jesus. (Text.)

    (2595)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The ermine, whose fur is so famed for its perfect whiteness, has
   been taken as the emblem of the integrity and incorruptibility
   that should characterize the judiciary. Thus a judge is spoken
   of as wearing the ermine. The dainty little creature makes
   it the business of its life to keep clean. So strong is this
   instinct that it will suffer capture or welcome death rather
   than defilement. Knowing this, trappers and others seeking its
   fur will smear the paths it might take to escape, and it keeps
   itself unspotted, tho it yields its life. (Text.)

    (2596)

   See ASSOCIATIONS MOLD MEN.


                        PURITY OF ASSOCIATIONS

Most people would like to be reckoned with the good and true of earth,
but they often overlook the necessity of a change in their moral
conditions before that which they hope for can come to pass. A mother,
speaking on this point, says:

   As a companion for my children there was brought into the family
   a little lamb, to which, in its helplessness, our hearts went
   out in love. We were about to take it in our arms to love and
   cherish when we discovered it was alive with what are commonly
   called “ticks.” Horrified, I ordered the lamb tied to a tree,
   and forbade the children, or any one, in fact, to go near
   it until it could be cleansed. I stood with my children on
   the piazza, watching it with mingled emotions. Its pathetic
   bleatings made us long to take it in our arms and caress it,
   “mother” it, in its separation and loneliness. But I and my
   children were clean. The lamb was not. Far from being clean,
   it was alive with filth. The standard of approach to me, as
   to all cleanly people, was cleanliness. Much as we yearned
   over the lamb and longed to care for it, until purified with a
   cleansing wash, communication could not be established. When the
   conditions were fulfilled, children and lamb, the latter white
   as newly-fallen snow, “clean every whit,” played together in
   happy companionship. (Text.)

    (2597)


                                PURPOSE

   The man without a purpose is like a ship without a rudder; a
   waif, a nothing, no man. Have a purpose in life, if it is only
   to kill and divide and sell oxen well, but have a purpose; and
   having it, throw such strength of mind and muscle into your work
   as God has given you.--THOMAS CARLYLE.

    (2598)

   See RESOLUTENESS.


                           PURPOSE DISCERNED

   A stone-mason may be a mere machine for breaking rock or he
   may be an architect’s assistant. It all depends on his point
   of view. If he is absolutely ignorant of the purpose of the
   stone which he hammers he will be the machine. But if he has
   even a remote idea that his block of stone is going to be set
   somewhere between the base line and the finial of a cathedral
   of a thousand years his work graduates into the artistic. The
   knowledge that the earnest expectation of the cathedral waits
   for his chunk of stone makes that stone mean something more than
   stone to him.--T. C. MCCLELLAND.

    (2599)


   =Purpose of God=--See PLANS, HUMAN, TRANSCENDED.


   =Purpose, Organic=--See DESIGN OF GOD.


   =Puzzling, Things that are=--See MYSTERY IN RELIGION.




                                   Q


   =Qualities Admired=--See APPRECIATION OF CHARACTER.


                            QUARRELSOMENESS

The New York _Times_ comments upon a disagreeable trait in a great
artist:

   The quarrelsomeness of Whistler began with a combination of
   nervous fastidiousness and temperamental gaiety of disposition.
   That spring, that elasticity of mind which kept his hand so full
   of craftsmanship, was the source of his eternal youth, his quips
   and cranks and love of teasing. In time the habit became fixt
   and Whistler developed a Mephistophelean dexterity in touching
   the raw, ever losing thereby one friend after another. Like the
   dog that has a reputation for biting, the genial master made
   a desert about his den, but consoled himself with noting how
   efficacious this reputation was in holding off bores.

    (2600)


                               QUIBBLING

Many a man makes excuses for his errors that are no more reasonable
than those of the lawyer whose client was sentenced by Judge Kent, the
well-known jurist:

   A man was indicted for burglary, and the evidence showed that
   his burglary consisted in cutting a hole through a tent in
   which several persons were sleeping and then projecting his
   head and arm through the hole and abstracting various articles
   of value. It was claimed by his counsel that, inasmuch as he
   did not actually enter the tent with his whole body, he had
   not committed the offense charged, and must, therefore, be
   discharged. Judge Kent, in reply to this plea, told the jury
   that if they were not satisfied that the whole man was involved
   in the crime, they might bring in a verdict of guilty against
   so much of him as was thus involved. The jury, after a brief
   consultation, found the right arm, the right shoulder and the
   head of the prisoner guilty of the offense of burglary. The
   judge sentenced the right arm, the right shoulder and head to
   imprisonment with hard labor in the State prison for two years,
   remarking that as to the rest of his body he might do with it
   what he pleased. (Text.)

    (2601)


                              QUICKENING

   An old legend tells that Adam lay buried on the very spot on
   which the cross of Christ was planted and that a drop of blood
   trickling down touched him instantly starting him into life. It
   is in allusion to this curious legend that in very old paintings
   of the crucifixion a skull is introduced. (Text.)

    (2602)


   =Quiet=--See SOUNDS.


                          QUIET, STUDY TO BE

One of the darkest and most trying experiences of the war was at the
time Lincoln relieved McClellan of his command:

   Loud cries of dissatisfaction arose in the north. Men came
   to Lincoln clamoring for changes in commands and plans and
   policies. “Gentlemen,” he said to one delegation of advisers,
   “suppose all the property you were worth was in gold and you
   had put it in the hands of Blondin to carry across the Niagara
   River on a rope. Would you shake the cable or keep shouting at
   him, ‘Blondin, stand up a little straighter; Blondin, stoop
   a little more; go a little faster; lean a little more to the
   north; lean a little more to the south’? No, you would hold your
   breath as well as your tongue and keep your hands off until he
   was safe over. The Government is carrying an enormous weight.
   Untold treasures are in our hands; we are doing the very best
   we can. Don’t badger us. Keep silence and we will get you safe
   across.”--JAMES MORGAN, “Abraham Lincoln, the Boy and
   the Man.”

    (2603)


                               QUIETNESS

   Scientific authorities are generally agreed that the night
   air contains less dust and fewer germs than the atmosphere
   during the day time. This is, of course, due to the fact that
   greater quietness prevails at night, and the traffic of the
   street is practically at a standstill. The still night air is
   more wholesome to breathe and is in a purer state than the air
   obtained in the daytime.

For the enjoyment of the best spiritual conditions we need frequently
to seek intervals of retreat from the restless distracting world.
(Text.)

    (2604)


                          QUIETNESS IN DANGER

   A lion in India had stolen a man and ran away with him to the
   jungle. A young officer loaded his weapon and followed in close
   pursuit. He discharged his piece full at the lion, which caused
   the animal and his victim to fall to the ground at once. While
   the officer was reloading his weapon, the lion began to crunch
   the captain’s arm. Notwithstanding the pain, the brave man,
   knowing the lion’s habits, resolved to lie perfectly still. The
   beast freed the man’s arm and crouched down with his paws on the
   thigh of the fallen foe.

   While in this dangerous situation, the captain unthinkingly
   raised his hand to support his head. The moment he moved, the
   prostrate man’s lacerated arm was seized the second time and
   crunched as before. This second painful lesson was sufficient
   to enable him to keep quiet until the young officer arrived and
   rescued him.

Quietness in time of danger has saved many a man from sad consequences.
(Text.)

    (2605)


   =Quietude=--See SILENCE.




                                   R


   =Race Improvement=--See IMPROVEMENT.


                             RACE LOYALTY

Lieut. David J. Gilmer, of the Forty-ninth Volunteer Infantry
(colored), commanding a detachment at Linao, was crediting his men for
some good work they had done.

   When he concluded, one of his men asked the lieutenant if he
   thought the Forty-ninth would be sent to China. The lieutenant
   said: “I don’t know, but I hope so.” Then some other soldier
   said: “Why, lieutenant, don’t you think we are doing enough?”
   The lieutenant said: “No! I wish that we could take part in all
   wars for our country; for the more good work we do the more
   benefit our race derives from it. If to sacrifice my life would
   cause our race to receive the same consideration in public
   affairs in the United States as other races, I would gladly walk
   out to any selected place and accept the death penalty.” (Text.)

    (2606)


   =Race Prejudice Overcome=--See CIVICS.


   =Race-track, The=--See GAMBLING.


                              RACE TRAITS

   All the white race have teeth vertical, the jaw short; and
   the manner in which the teeth fit one upon the other is
   perpendicularly, so that when we close the mouth we bring the
   lower teeth against the upper teeth in such a juxtaposition that
   the two sets stand vertical, one above the other. The races of
   men which have that kind of dentition are called orthognate;
   that is, straight-jawed races; while there are other races--and,
   among others, all the inhabitants of the South Sea Islands and
   all the inhabitants of Africa south of the Atlas--that have
   their front teeth inclined, so that the upper teeth and the
   lower teeth, when brought against one another, form an angle
   and the mouth is more prominent; these men are called prognate.
   And that difference is a constant one. All the races of men
   with prognate jaws have also thicker and more prominent lips.
   They have also flat noses, which I have already described, with
   broad partitions between the nostrils, and the nostrils opening
   sideways.--Prof. LOUIS AGASSIZ.

    (2607)


                          RADIANCE, REFLECTED

The human soul may see God as veiled in the incarnation, tho we are
told that none can look on Him (in His full glory) and live:

   Lighting by “glow,” or by the reflection of rays from a dull
   white surface, is becoming more and more common. According to
   the writer of an article in _The American Magazine_, this
   was first done on a large scale at the Chicago Exposition in
   1893, where it was adopted by Luther Stieringer. The cafe of
   the Adams House in Boston is lighted by a domed ceiling that
   glows gently and evenly with the reflected light of hundreds
   of invisible incandescent bulbs hidden around its base. In the
   great blue dome of the great pillared reading-room of Columbia
   University Library--the noblest educational building in the
   country--hangs what is locally known as “the mothball,” a huge
   globe of ground glass. It is perhaps a hundred feet above the
   floor, yet at night, when four calcium lights are turned on it,
   its subdued, reflected radiance fills the whole hall.

    (2608)


                               RADIATION

God is eternally radiating His life into the universe as the sun from
its glowing center rays forth heat:

   The most recent estimates place the effective temperature of the
   sun’s radiating surface at about 10,000 degrees Fahrenheit.

   This vast globe of gases and vapors is radiating heat into
   space, is cooling off. The intensely heated particles of the
   interior rise to the surface, give off their heat, and sink back
   again, just as do the bubbles of steam in a kettle of boiling
   water. This circulation from within outward takes place over
   the whole of the sun and, as a rule, it proceeds steadily and
   quietly, without any marked disturbance.--CHARLES LANE
   POOR, “The Solar System.”

    (2609)


                        RANK, OBSEQUIOUSNESS TO

   “In Europe, and especially in France, people have the greatest
   regard for any one who has received a medal or other decoration
   of honor,” said Dr. Helms, of Buffalo, in the course of a sermon
   on “France and the French.” And to prove this he related a
   little anecdote. “A friend of mine,” said Dr. Helms, “visiting
   a popular summer resort in southern France, became annoyed at
   the manner in which he was neglected in the dining-room. Men
   who came in long after he did would be served, while he sat
   unnoticed. Finally he became curious to know the reason for
   this, and slipping a coin into the hand of a friendly-looking
   waiter, he asked him why it was.

   “‘Because,’ replied the waiter, ‘Mr. So-and-So belongs to the
   Legion of Honor, and Mr. Blank has received the Order of St.
   Michael, and Mr. Smith and Mr. Jones and all the others have
   some decoration.’

   “My friend was equal to the occasion,” added Mr. Helms. “In his
   trunk up-stairs was the badge he had worn at the Republican
   convention which nominated President Taft, and he wore it
   prominently displaced on his coat lapel when he came down to
   dine again. Thereafter he had no occasion to complain about
   the service and nothing in the dining-room was too good for
   him.”--Buffalo _Evening News_.

    (2610)


   =Rapidity in Nature=--See GROWTH IN NATURE.


                                RAPPORT

   In missionary work, first and foremost, confidence must be
   established and the heart won. The missionary may be learned,
   may be hard-working and godly, may be earnest as John Knox, and
   indefatigable as Mr. Moody, but if the people do not love him,
   they will not listen to his doctrine. It is a terrible fact
   that there are some missionaries on the field who are not loved
   by the people. While unlovely and unloved, all they do is as
   wood, hay, and stubble. As in wireless telegraphy, there must
   be harmony of note between despatcher and receiver, so, ere
   messages to the soul pass, despatcher missionary and receiver
   Oriental must be in tune. What wonders you can do when the heart
   is won! The multitude may hold you in its grip, from dawn till
   sunset, still next day you are full of hope again. It is the
   missionary in tune with God and with the heart of the East who
   does the work. Let much emphasis be put on the right key as to
   the heart, for therein lies the secret.--JAMES S. GALE,
   “Korea in Transition.”

    (2611)


   =Rated High, Brought Low by Drink=--See DRINK, PERIL OF.


   =Reaction, The Law of=--See CONFIDENCE, INSPIRING.


                          READINESS IN RETORT

   Jedediah Burchard, the brilliant evangelist of the middle years
   of the nineteenth century, who swept like a flame over New York
   and New England, was holding great prayer-meetings at Danbury,
   Conn., before his preaching services. At one of these crowded
   prayer services, when many were asking prayers for unsaved
   relatives and friends, and a young man had earnestly besought
   prayer for an aged father, a blatant infidel who haunted the
   meetings simply to interrupt, jumped up and said, “Mr. Burchard!
   I want to ask prayers for--the Devil!” “Go right on praying,
   brethren,” said Mr. Burchard, “this man also wants his father
   prayed for!” That interrupter never again was heard of at a
   meeting.

    (2612)


                          READING BY SCHEDULE

Rev. W. H. Fitchett writes about a great Methodist pioneer a paragraph
that shows how an education may be acquired by regular and persistent
toil.

   The Staffordshire peasant, Francis Asbury, traveling five
   thousand miles a year, preaching incessantly, spending three
   hours a day in prayer, and without a settled home, yet had it
   as a fixt rule to read a hundred pages daily. He made himself a
   scholar, and mastered Latin, Greek, and Hebrew.--“Wesley and His
   Century.”

    (2613)


   =Reading Current Literature=--See LITERATURE, CURRENT.


   =Reading, Eloquent=--See LORD’S PRAYER INTERPRETED.


   =Reading Indispensable=--See EDUCATION TO BE PRIZED.


   =Reading the Gospel in Faces=--See FACE, THE, REVEALING
      THE GOSPEL.


                                REALISM

   The art of painting pictures so near to life as to deceive the
   naked eye is very old. Pliny relates that Zeuxis once painted
   some grapes so naturally that birds used to come and peck at
   them, and that Parrhasius once painted a curtain so artfully
   that Zeuxis desired to draw it aside so that he could see the
   picture it hid. Discovering his error, he confest himself
   outdone, as he had only imposed on birds, whereas Parrhasius had
   deceived the human intellect. Another time Zeuxis painted a boy
   with some grapes, and when the birds again flew at the grapes he
   was very angry, saying that he was certainly at fault with the
   picture. He reasoned that had it been perfect the birds would
   have been frightened away by the boy.

   Caius Valerius Flaccus says that Zeuxis’ death was occasioned by
   an immoderate fit of laughter on looking at the comic picture he
   had drawn of an old woman.--Philadelphia _Ledger_.

    (2614)


                       REALISM, REFRAINING FROM

    He came unto the door of heaven,
      Free as of old and gay;
    “What hast thou done,” the porter cried,
      “That thou should’st pass this way?”

    “Hast fed the hungry, clothed the poor?”
      The vagrant shook his head.
    “I drank my wine and I was glad,
      But I did not give them bread.”

    “Hast prayed upon the altar steps?”
      “Nay, but I loved the sun.”
    “Hast wept?” “The blossoms of the spring
      I gathered every one.”

    “But what fair deed can’st thou present?
      Like light, one radiant beam?”
    “I robbed no child of his fairy-tale,
      No dreamer of his dream.”

    --ANNA MCCLURE SHOLL, _Appleton’s_.

    (2615)


                          REALITIES INVISIBLE

   The schoolboy writes these figures on his slate: 2+2=4, and
   says two and two make four. But the two and the two which he
   has written on the slate do not make the four which he has
   written on the slate. For both the twos are there unchanged,
   and the four also. The two and two that make four are in his
   head--invisible. The figures on the slate are not the realities,
   they are only symbols which interpret the realities, and the
   realities are invisible--LYMAN ABBOTT, _The Outlook_.

    (2616)


                                REALITY

It takes actual experience to bring realization of many things that we
thought we knew before. This is the way one of the passengers of the
illfated steamship _Republic_ (January 23, 1909) speaks of her
experience:

   “I have read sea stories,” she said, “and have read time and
   again of the command, ‘to the boats; women first,’ but, let me
   tell you, I knew what it meant last Saturday morning for the
   first time. Out of the fog-hidden night it came; I could not
   trace the speaker at first, as we all huddled on the deck. Out
   of the dark it came, straight and true and strong, and with
   all the chivalry of man at his highest behind it. ‘Women and
   children will enter the boat first.’ I think more of bravery now
   that I know what it means; I think more of manhood. I am glad I
   heard that command, as Captain Sealby hurled it at us through
   his megaphone.”

    (2617)


   =Reality Exprest in a Dream=--See CHRIST IN THE CONGREGATION.


                        REALITY VERSUS ILLUSION

We should steer clear of a credulity that accepts ghosts and visions
because some good people testify about them.

   A whole ship’s company was thrown into the utmost consternation
   by the apparition of the cook who had died a few days before. He
   was distinctly seen walking ahead of the ship, with a peculiar
   gait by which he was distinguished when alive, through having
   one of his legs shorter than the other. On steering the ship
   toward the object, it was found to be a piece of floating wreck.

   It is not surprizing, therefore, that there are apparently
   well-authenticated stories of ghosts who have been seen under
   different circumstances by people, and, moreover, by people
   of unquestioned mental ability, people of strong mentality
   concerning whose integrity and reliability there can be no
   question.--EDWIN J. HOUSTON, “The Wonder Book of Light.”

    (2618)


   =Reason, The Real=--See CONFIDENCE, LACK OF.


                        REASON VERSUS INSTINCT

   A boy was asked to explain the difference between animal
   instinct and human intelligence. “If we had instinct,” he said,
   “we should know everything we needed to know without learning
   it; but we’ve got reason, and so we have to study ourselves
   ’most blind or be a fool.”

    (2619)


                          REASONABLE RELIGION

   Mr. Robert E. Speer tells of going to the house of a friend in
   Japan to meet a number of old Biblewomen who were being trained
   for Christian service, some of whom were fifty or sixty years
   of age before they found Christ. Mr. Speer asked them what
   they found dearest in Christianity. He supposed they would say
   that what they valued most was the moral peace and joy that it
   brought them. Instead, these old women, some of whom had not
   been able to read before they became Christians, said instantly
   that what they prized most in Christianity was the intellectual
   solution of their difficulties that it had brought. They had
   come into contact with a Savior who had set their minds free.
   Moral rest and peace were sweet, but it was sweeter still to
   realize that they were at last serving a reasonable Master.
   (Text.)

    (2620)


                      REASONING POWER IN ANIMALS

   As throwing light upon the question of the intelligence of the
   animal creation, in the exhibition of memory and reasoning
   power, beyond the mere pale of recognized instinct, I wish to
   give a brief account of an interesting incident of which I was
   the witness. On a very warm day in early summer I happened
   to be standing near a chicken-coop in a back yard when I
   noticed the head of a very gray and grizzled rat thrust from
   a neighboring rat-hole, and concluded to watch the movements
   of the veteran. After a careful survey of the surroundings,
   our old rodent seemed to be satisfied that all was right, and
   made a cautious exit from the home retreat. A fresh pan of
   water had been recently placed before the chicken-coop for the
   use of Mother “Chick” and her interesting brood. These all
   seemed to have satisfied their thirst, and the water looked a
   friendly invitation to the thirsty old rat, which immediately
   started toward it. The rat had not reached the pan before
   five half-grown young ones rushed ahead and tried to be first
   at the water. The old rat thereupon immediately made a leap
   like a kangaroo, and was at the edge of the dish in advance
   of the foremost of her litter. Then ensued a most remarkable
   occurrence. The mother rat raised herself on her haunches and
   bit and scratched her offspring so severely, whenever they
   attempted to reach the water, that they all finally scudded
   away, evidently very much astonished and also frightened at
   the strange and unaccountable behavior of their mother. I was
   as much astonished as they, and waited with renewed interest
   the outcome of this remarkable performance. When the little
   ones were at a safe distance, the reason for her extraordinary
   behavior began to be revealed at once in the intelligent actions
   of the old mother rat. She first wet her whiskers in the
   water, looked suspiciously about her, then very cautiously and
   carefully took a dainty little sip of the liquid. She tasted
   it as tentatively and critically as a professional tea-taster,
   and when she was satisfied that it contained no poisonous or
   other deleterious matter, she gave a couple of squeaks, which
   quickly brought her young and thirsty brood to her side, and all
   fearlessly drank to their fill. Now, this old mother rat was
   experienced, had evidently learned her lesson in that school
   thoroughly, and so she would not allow her young and untaught
   litter to taste water which might have contained rat-poison, or
   what not, until she had satisfied herself that the liquid was
   harmless. As I witnessed this little scene in lowly animal life
   the thought would keep coming, does not this look very like
   reason?--F. CROLL BAUM, _American Naturalist_.

    (2621)


   =Reasoning Successful=--See TACT.


                                REASONS

   Lord Mansfield, when a friend of his own was appointed governor
   of a West India island, and complained that he would have also
   to sit as a judge and decide cases, which he dreaded, advised
   him to decide according to his notions of common sense, but
   never to give his reasons; for, said he, “your judgment will
   probably be right, but your reasons will certainly be wrong.”
   Many years afterward, Lord Mansfield, while sitting on Privy
   Council appeals, had a judgment of this governor brought before
   the court, which seemed so absurd in its reasons that there was
   a serious clamor for a recall of the governor as incompetent.
   It was found, however, that the decision itself was perfectly
   right. It appeared that at first the governor acted on Lord
   Mansfield’s advice by deciding without giving reasons; and
   finding that he acquired great reputation by these decisions,
   began to think himself a great lawyer, and then gave his reasons
   at length, which had the result above mentioned.

   (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (2622)


   =Reasons, Clear=--See GOOD FOR EVIL.


                        REASONS VERSUS EXCUSES

   “What is the difference between a poor excuse for being late at
   school and a real reason for being late? Give an example.” Out
   come examples of oversleeping or dilly-dallying as contrasted
   with the unavoidable fact that the cars were blocked. “An excuse
   is hollow; a real reason is stout and whole.” “An excuse is a
   method of concealment; a good reason is its own justification.”
   So write my girls. One delightful girl of twelve explained,
   “This morning I was late but I had a real reason. When I went
   up-stairs after breakfast to feed my animals, my favorite
   guinea-pig, Christopher Columbus, was so sick that he could
   hardly stand up. I had to stay and make him comfortable, and
   so I was late to school. But the teacher said it was a good
   reason.” Echoes of the difference between poor excuses and good
   reasons resound for several weeks. “To-day I have no reason for
   being late, only an excuse. I didn’t know what time it was, but
   then I ought to have found out.”

   With older pupils I take up more complicated cases illustrating
   the tendency of any selfish person to deceive himself or
   herself. “I am traveling from New Hampshire to Boston with a
   large number of bundles and am delighted to secure an extra
   seat on which to deposit them. Gradually the car fills up
   and all who pass by look wistfully at my seat. If I continue
   to keep my parcels on it by what arguments can I pretend that
   it is right?” We bring out together all the half-conscious
   sophistry that clings like a burr to selfishness. “There may be
   seats farther on; if they want the seat they can ask for it;
   it would only crowd any one to sit with me; it is really more
   comfortable for her to stand.” Every one in the class realizes
   that these excuses are weak subterfuges; for as one girl said,
   “Such sputtering people deceive themselves.”--ELLA LYMAN
   CABOT, “Proceedings of the National Education Association,”
   1909.

    (2623)


                          REBUFFS A STIMULANT

   I knew a student paying his way through college who was so poor
   that the wealthier students made fun of him. They were always
   guying him about his short trousers, seedy clothes, and general
   out-at-elbow condition. He was so stung by their jibes that he
   made a vow not only to redeem himself from ridicule, but to make
   himself a power in the world.

   This young man has had most remarkable success, and he says that
   the rebuffs he met with and the ridicule that was heaped upon
   him in his student days have been a perpetual stimulus to his
   ambition to get on in the world.

   A successful business man tells me that every victory he has
   gained in a long career has been the result of hard fighting,
   so that now he is actually afraid of an easily won success. He
   feels that there must be something wrong when anything worth
   while can be obtained without a struggle. Fighting his way
   to triumph, overcoming obstacles, gives this man pleasure.
   Difficulties are a tonic to him. He likes to do hard things
   because it tests his strength, his overcoming ability, his
   power. He does not like to do easy things because it does
   not give one the exhilaration, the joy that is felt after a
   victorious struggle.--_Success._

    (2624)


   =Rebuke, Appropriate=--See SELFISHNESS REBUKED.


   =Rebuke, Results of=--See TESTIMONY, FRUIT OF.


                         RECALL, THE POWER OF

   Many persons are under the impression that a letter once mailed
   is no longer the property of the sender, but belongs to the
   person to whom it is addrest. This is an error. Under the postal
   regulations of the United States and the rulings of the highest
   courts in the land, a letter does not belong to the addressee
   until it is delivered to him.

   The writer has a right to reclaim and regain possession of it
   provided he can prove to the satisfaction of the postmaster at
   the office from which it was sent that he was the writer of it.

   Even after the letter has arrived in the office which is its
   destination and before it has been delivered to the addrest it
   may be recalled by the writer by telegraph through the mailing
   office.

It would be a great boon to all of us who speak in haste and repent at
leisure if we could as easily recall our spoken messages.

    (2625)


                             RECEPTIVENESS

The _British Weekly_ gives a good rule in rime to those who need
more openness to good influences and blessings:

    Open the door, let in the air;
    The winds are sweet and the flowers are fair.
    Joy is abroad in the world to-day;
    If our door is wide, it may come this way.
              Open the door!

    Open the door, let in the sun;
    He hath a smile for every one;
    He hath made of the rain-drops gold and gems;
    He may change our tears to diadems
              Open the door!

    Open the door of the soul; let in
    Strong, pure thoughts which shall banish sin.
    They will grow and bloom with a grace divine,
    And their fruit shall be sweeter than that of the vine.
              Open the door!

    Open the door to the heart; let in
    Sympathy sweet for stranger and kin;
    It will make the halls of the heart so fair
    That angels may enter unaware.
              Open the door!

    (2626)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Art thou a beggar at God’s door? Be sure thou gettest a great
   bowl, for as thy bowl is, so will be thy mess. “According to thy
   faith,” saith He, “be it unto thee.”--UNIDENTIFIED.

    (2627)


                              RECLAMATION

“There are no useless American acres,” Secretary Wilson is reported to
have said. “The Government is seeking in all parts of the world for
crops that have become acclimated to dry conditions, and it has been
so successful that many places that were once accounted desert land
are to-day supporting productive farms.” Says Guy Elliott Mitchell,
secretary of the National Irrigation Association, in an article on
“Resources of the American Desert,” contributed to _The Technical
World_ (Chicago):

   “It has been estimated that in the neighborhood of 100,000,000
   acres of the American desert can be reclaimed to most intensive
   agriculture through irrigation; yet Frederick V. Coville, the
   chief botanist of the Department of Agriculture, does not
   hesitate to say that in the strictly arid region are many
   millions of acres, now considered worthless for agriculture,
   which are as certain to be settled in small farms as were
   the lands of Illinois; and this without irrigation. This
   applies particularly to the great plateaus in the northern
   Rocky Mountain region. ‘I would confidently predict,’ said
   Mr. Coville, ‘that the transformation of these barren-looking
   lands into farms, through the introduction of desert plants,
   will be as extensive a work as the enormous reclamation through
   irrigation.’”

Moral wastes should be and can be reclaimed, as surely as the American
deserts. There is no such thing as a wholly useless life. (Text.)

    (2628)

   See IRRIGATION.

       *       *       *       *       *

Doctor John Clifford, of London, tells this story about Gladstone. It
relates to two young men who had got into drinking habits:

   Gladstone knew of them, heard of the downward road they were
   traveling, and felt necessity laid upon him to try and reclaim
   them. He invited them to Hawarden, impressively appealed to them
   to mend their ways, and then knelt and fervently asked God to
   sustain and strengthen them in their resolve to abstain from
   that which had done them so much harm. “Never,” says one of the
   men in question, “can I forget the scene, and as long as I have
   memory the incidents of the meeting will be indelibly imprest
   upon my mind. The Grand Old Man was profoundly moved by the
   intensity of his solicitation. Neither of us from that day to
   this has touched a drop of intoxicating drink, nor are we ever
   likely to violate an undertaking so impressively ratified in Mr.
   Gladstone’s library.” (Text.)

    (2629)


   =Recluse Ignorance=--See MONEY, IGNORANCE OF.


                       RECOGNITION BY ONE’S WORK

   Sir Antony Vandyck, the artist, once visited the studio of
   Frans Hals, a fellow craftsman, disguised as a stranger, and
   sat for his portrait. Professing surprize at the work, he
   said: “Painting is doubtless an easier thing than I thought.
   Let us change places and see what I can do.” When his work was
   finished, so skilful was it that Hals rushed at his guest, and
   clasped him round the neck in a fraternal hug. “The man who
   can do that,” he cried, “must be either Vandyck or the devil.”
   (Text.)

    (2630)


                              RECOMPENSE

Lizzie L. Baker, in _The Watchman_, voices a common hope that the
life to come will make the suffering of this life seem of no moment to
us:

    As they who cross with only sails
    The wave-lashed ocean wide and deep;
    Slow journey, baffled by the winds,
    At last strike sail, safe harbor reached,
    Forget the hardships of the way.

    So when we reach yon heavenly shore,
    The toil and suffering undergone
    Will not find place in memory’s crypt,
    So fair the port for which we sailed.

    (2631)


                        RECOMPENSE FOR KINDNESS

   Ariosto tells us of a gentle fairy, who, by a mysterious law
   of her nature, was at certain periods compelled to assume the
   form of a serpent and to crawl upon the ground. Those who in the
   days of her disguise spurned her and trod upon her were forever
   debarred from a participation in those gifts that it was her
   privilege to bestow, but to those who, despite her unsightly
   aspect, comforted her and encouraged her and aided her, she
   appeared in the beautiful and celestial form of her true nature,
   followed them ever after with outstretched arms, lavished upon
   them her gifts, and filled their homes with happiness and
   wealth.--HORACE PORTER.

    (2632)


                          RECORD, KEEPING THE

In “Famous Stories of Sam P. Jones,” appears the following:

   Start an engine from New York to San Francisco, and there is
   attached to its side a little piece of mechanism which indicates
   the number of miles it has traveled, the stoppages it has made,
   and how long it stopt at each station; and if you want to know
   the record of the journey you need not ask the engineer a word.
   The little piece of mechanism on the side of the engine tells
   you its record.

In the same way the thoughts, deeds, and progress of a soul are
self-registering. (Text.)

    (2633)


                            RECORD, LIVING

   The tympanum of the ear will vibrate no longer when the music
   or the clamor that arrested and aroused it has subsided into
   silence. But that invisible yet living spirit, which watches
   through the eye, and harkens through the ear, and which takes
   instant note of whatever surrounds it, has caught the sight and
   the sound now vanished, and it will keep them forever. It writes
   its records, not as the Roman laws were written, first on wood,
   then on brass, and afterward on ivory; but at once on a tablet
   more impressible than wood, more vivid than brass, more precious
   than ivory, and more imperishable than either.--RICHARD S.
   STORRS.

    (2634)

       *       *       *       *       *

   We are all writing our lives’ histories here, as if with one of
   these “manifold writers,” a black blank page beneath the flimsy
   sheet on which we write; but presently the black page will be
   taken away, and the writing will stand out plain on the page
   behind that we did not see. Life is the filmy unsubstantial
   page on which our pen rests; the black page is death; and
   the page beneath is that indelible transcript of our earthly
   actions, which we shall find waiting for us to read, with
   shame and confusion of face, or with humble joy, in another
   world--ALEXANDER MCLAREN.

    (2635)


   =Recovery, Difficulty of=--See MATURITY, SINS OF.


   =Recovery, Instant=--See DIABOLICAL POSSESSION.


   =Recuperation=--See NATURE’S RECUPERATIVE POWERS.


   =Redeemed by Song=--See WANDERER’S RETURN.


                         REDEMPTION FROM EVIL

   Our forefathers sat in despair before yellow fevers, black
   deaths, sweating-sicknesses, cholera, and similar pestilences,
   but science is now gradually feeling its way to the minute and
   obscure causes of epidemic diseases, and year by year we draw
   closer to the time when it may probably put into our hands the
   means not only of arresting these epidemics, but of stamping
   them out altogether. The physician has become familiar with
   the bacteria; and with ceaseless patience he tracks down the
   mischief to its origin and birth. The scientist anticipates the
   time when the whole range of zymotic disease will be conquered.
   Will any call this foolish dreaming, and argue that because
   these sad scourges have always been they always will be? Such
   a pessimist is unworthy of the privilege of living in this
   glorious age. It is a delightful and legitimate hope that the
   race may yet master all its physical foes.

   But if these physical evils are to be subdued, is not that moral
   evil, which is the root of all other evils, to be subdued also?
   Christ came to assure us of this, and the absolute casting out
   of the demon is the sign of the glorious truth.--W. L.
   WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (2636)


   =Reductio ad Absurdum=--See ART UNAPPRECIATED.


                      REENFORCEMENT FROM WITHOUT

Many a man who, standing alone, fails in fruitfulness, might reenforce
his powers by availing himself of the help of others, much as this
pear-tree was reenforced:

   An ingenious plan to save a dying pear-tree was adopted in the
   gardens of L. M. Chase, of Boston. The mice had girded the tree
   so that it seemed bound to die. Mr. Chase planted four small
   trees around it, and close to it, cut off the tops, pointed
   the ends, and, making incisions in the bark of the pear, bent
   the small trees, and grafted them upon the dying trunk. They
   all lived, and that tree draws its nourishment from the small
   ones. A bushel of handsome pears were taken from it.--_Public
   Opinion._

    (2637)


                         REFLECTION, DISTURBED

   If the sea does not throw up in beautiful reflection the hills
   and foliage that are along its shore, it is not because they are
   not mirrored there, it is not because there are not there still
   reflective depths, but because the tremulousness of its furrowed
   surface has shattered the reflection and made it indiscernible
   and unintelligible, and those quiet depths are only waiting for
   the opportunity.

   That is the only reason why the beauty that is in the world
   does not stir in us our sense of beauty and make us beautiful;
   why the grandeur of God’s created universe does not move in us
   mightily and broaden our thoughts to something of the scope of
   the universe; why the mystery of things does not quicken us into
   impassioned inquiry and send our thoughts ranging fascinatedly
   along the aisles of the unknown.--CHARLES H. PARKHURST.

    (2638)


                         REFLECTION, IMPERFECT

   Rector W. B. Salmon gave an apt tho homely illustration of the
   harm done by the low level on which some Christians live, by
   saying: “I was traveling by night in a London train, trying to
   read some small books, and a man opposite leaned across to me.
   It is not good for the eyes,’ he said, ‘to read by such a bad
   light,’ and to that I assented. But when I looked up the light
   was not a bad one at all. There was a good lamp, well trimmed,
   giving a good light, only the reflector was wrong--broken and
   dull. We were blaming the light when the fault lay with the
   reflector.” (Text.)

    (2639)


                           REFLECTION OF GOD

   The beauty of character is to reflect God; and just so far as
   we color this reflection of God with anything of self, so far
   do we fail of that clarification of inward thought and outward
   life which makes us like Him. The diamond is the perfect type
   of character. Every other precious stone reflects the light
   colored by its own texture. Only the diamond reflects light in
   its essential purity. This is the secret of its superiority
   among gems. Other gems may be beautiful, but the diamond is
   transcendently beautiful.--_Zion’s Herald._

    (2640)


   =Reflex Values=--See PRAYERS.


                              REFORMATION

   John E. Gunckel, a very desirable citizen of Toledo, has
   accomplished a good work through the Newsboys’ Association of
   Toledo, which he organized. At present (1909) he has 6,267
   members on the roll. “Just as you are” is the appeal made to the
   boy of the street.

   Five years ago a prominent business man called Mr. Gunckel on
   the telephone and inquired what he could say for W---- K----, a
   young man who had applied for a position. Mr. Gunckel consulted
   the book of errors and said, “He stole a package of papers
   thrown from a train, and sold them. Stole twenty-five cents that
   a man gave him in payment for a paper--”

   “That’s enough; this is a position of trust. We must have an
   honest young man.”

   “Hold on, hold on,” said Gunckel, “that record is ten years
   old; let me give you something up-to-date. Last Christmas eve,
   just as I was retiring, I was called to the door and there was
   W---- K---- with a horse and pung. He had twenty-one baskets of
   turkeys, vegetables, fruit, and all conceivable goodies that he
   was taking to as many families in the slums of his district.
   He had raised the money himself, had investigated each case,
   and was distributing the baskets. He has been an officer for
   about nine years. Hasn’t stolen, lied, or gambled, used liquor
   or tobacco for more than nine years. Has brought in scores of
   valuable articles found that he might have stolen--”

   “There, hold up, that’ll do; he is just the fellow I want.” He
   has made good. (Text.)--_The World To-day._

    (2641)

       *       *       *       *       *

   With Bunyan’s marriage to a good woman the real reformation
   in his life began. While still in his teens he married a girl
   as poor as himself. “We came together,” he says, “as poor as
   might be, having not so much household stuff as a dish or spoon
   between us both.” The only dowry which the girl brought to
   her new home was two old, threadbare books, “The Plain Man’s
   Pathway to Heaven,” and “The Practise of Piety.” Bunyan read
   these books, which instantly gave fire to his imagination. He
   saw new visions and dreamed terrible new dreams of lost souls;
   his attendance at church grew exemplary; he began slowly and
   painfully to read the Bible for himself, but because of his own
   ignorance and the contradictory interpretations of Scripture
   which he heard on every side, he was tossed about like a
   feather by all the winds of doctrine.--WILLIAM J. LONG,
   “English Literature.”

    (2642)


                          REFORMERS, ERRATIC

   On the farm there grows a weed called the tumble-weed. When
   October comes, the wind breaks the stalk. As round as a
   dandelion puff-ball, the tumble-weed is as large as a bushel
   basket. When the wind blows from the north the tumble-weeds
   start across the field, toward the fence-corners. That evening,
   when the wind changes, the tumble-weed starts rolling across
   the meadow toward the same fence from which it started in the
   morning. With the new day, the tumble-weed takes up fresh
   journeys. At night the wind rises, and tho the farmer and his
   flocks sleep, not the tumble-weeds. They are still traveling.
   We all are familiar, alas, with the career of Mr. Tumble
   Weed, the false radical, tumbling into every public meeting,
   Sunday-afternoon-gathering reform club. The moment the meeting
   opens he unrolls his fad and reform, and away he goes--now
   toward this extreme, now toward that, driven every whither by
   the new wind, issuing from the puffed-out cheek of any new
   faddist in reform. (Text.)--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2643)


   =Reforms not Sudden=--See IMPATIENCE OF REFORMERS.


                          REFRESHING SPRINGS

Prof. C. D. Hitchcock writes interestingly about fresh-water springs
that rise under the sea, and near the sea-shore in Hawaii:

   Powerful streams discharge millions of gallons of water through
   the artificial openings very near the sea-shore. If not
   intercepted, they must continue a considerable distance out to
   sea, and hence must well up to the surface amid saline billows.

   Inquiry about these springs during the past summer in the
   territory of Hawaii has resulted in the discovery of several
   upon Oahu; there is one off Diamond Head, a second off Waialae.
   At the east of Maui, in Hana, there was a fortress named
   Kaimuke, occupied by soldiers in the ancient times. As it was
   almost an island, communication with the mainland was not
   feasible in the time of a siege, and for the lack of water it
   could not have been held except for the presence of submarine
   springs. The natives would dive down to collect water in their
   calabashes, which supplied all the wants of the garrison.
   (Text.)--_The Popular Science Monthly._

    (2644)


   =Refreshment=--See OASES.


                                REFUGE

   The old sanctuary of the abbey and palace of Holyrood House was
   an interesting institution. The debtor was free from arrest
   during the week. On entering the sanctuary he enrolled himself
   in a formal manner and obtained a room--that is, if he could pay
   for it. There was a public house within the boundaries, and it
   was not uncommon to see the debtor in the inn playing dominoes
   and his creditors standing looking in at the window with wistful
   eyes. The debtor was safe, and he knew it, and the face of the
   creditor told the same tale. Sunday being a _dies non_,
   the debtor could leave his sanctuary and visit his family, but
   he had to be careful to get back to Holyrood on Sunday night.
   Sometimes a debtor had the temerity to leave on a week day, but
   he did so at his peril.

Once in the ark, God himself having shut in the occupant, the latter
could not be safer. A city of refuge, indeed!

    (2645)


                            REFUGES OF SIN

   Caves are found along the sides of the banks of the Jordan that
   are at first one story high, then two stories and, as the river
   increases in depth, three-story caves are found.

   At certain periods of the year the river overflows its banks.
   The wild animals native to that country seek a refuge in the
   one-story caves for a time. As the river swells and grows more
   turbid, the wild creatures seek shelter in the two-story caves.
   When the river attains to high-water mark, the animals run for
   their life to the third-story caves. When these overflow, then
   these beasts at bay are caught and killed.

How many men are hiding away from God in the caves and strongholds of
their transgressions. But when the high tides of misfortune come, their
sin will find them out.

    (2646)


   =Refused in Need=--See NEED, REFUSED IN THE HOUR OF.


                             REGENERATION

   When the first experiments upon the tulips and wild asters were
   undertaken, some said that it was a sin, because if God had
   wanted tulips to be double and have different colors, God would
   have made them that way. But scientists in Holland, and Burbank
   in California, and a thousand others, are standing over the
   grains and whispering, “Ye must be born again.” The scientist
   has touched the wild aster, and it has become the chrysanthemum.
   He has touched the black tulip, and it has become a flower of
   many hues and quadruple size. He has whispered to the little
   field-daisy, and it has become the Shasta daisy, that waves in
   the fields like a bunch of women’s hats. He has touched the wild
   sloe, and it has become a luscious plum. He has touched a bitter
   orange, and, lo! it has lost its seed, doubled its sweetness and
   quadrupled its size. And to-day the whole world is on tiptoe of
   expectancy.

   There is no new fruit or flower that is not possible, for
   the horizons have been pulled down. A great, wide vista of
   possibility opens up. The berries, the vegetables, the fruits,
   the grains, must all be born again. Now all this is only
   a revelation of what is possible for the soul.--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (2647)


                           REGISTER OF LIFE

   “An apparatus called a ‘pulse register’ has been devised by a
   Viennese physician, Dr. Gartner. It is intended,” says _The
   Medical Times_, “to watch and register the action of the
   heart and pulse while the patient is under the influence of
   chloroform, ether, or cocain. The apparatus consists of a
   watch-like box, to be attached to the patient’s forearm. The box
   has a graduated dial and hands, working according to pulse and
   blood-pressure vibrations, which are registered by an elastic
   spring in the most precise manner imaginable. The physician in
   attendance, or operator, is all the time kept informed of the
   exact degree of the unconscious person’s pulse and heart action.
   The controller, furthermore, shows the action of pulses which
   the physician’s fingers can not feel nor find.”

    (2648)


                                REGRET

Mrs. Marion M. Hutson writes a lesson as to appreciating the troubles
of friends while they live:

    Somewhere in the future, soon or late,
    My weary feet will reach the outer gate,
    Where rest begins, and earth’s long highway ends,
    And then, perhaps, through misty eyes my friends
    Will see how rough the path has been, and say,
    “Would we had tried to smooth the rugged way.”
    Oh, friends and loved ones! do not wait, but give
    A little help and comfort while I live.

    (2649)

   See LOST CHORDS.


   =Regular Inspection=--See CLEANLINESS.


                      REGULARITY, ECCLESIASTICAL

   Butler, the famous author of Butler’s “Analogy,” himself, with
   all his high gifts, supplies, in his own person, an expressive
   proof of the spiritual blindness and death which lay on the
   churches of Wesley’s day. He forbade Whitefield and the Wesleys
   to preach in his diocese, tho all around his cathedral city lay
   the most degraded and hopeless class in England--the coal-miners
   of Kingswood, as untouched by any of the forces of Christianity
   as if they had been savages in Central Africa. That the best,
   the wisest, the most powerful, the most earnestly convinced
   of the bishops of that day should take this attitude toward
   Wesley and his work shows what was the general temper of the
   clergy of that time. Butler’s conscience was not disquieted by
   the lapse into mere heathenism of a whole class within sound
   of the bells of his cathedral; but he grows piously indignant
   at the spectacle of an ecclesiastical irregularity.--W. H.
   FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (2650)


   =Regulation, Timepiece=--See SYNCHRONISM.


                          REJECTION OF CHRIST

   George Frederick Watts, the great symbolical artist of “Love
   and Death,” “Hope,” “Time, Death, and Judgment,” and other
   famous pictures, painted “The Ruler.” Speaking of the picture
   afterward he said, “Now I am doing a man’s back--little else but
   his back, to explain ‘he went away sorrowful, for he had great
   possessions.’ Fancy a man turning his back on Christ rather than
   give away his goods! They say his back looks sorry; I don’t
   know. It is what I meant his back to express.” (Text.)

    (2651)


                              RELATIVITY

   If we were to note that, suddenly and in the same proportions,
   the distance between two points on this earth had increased,
   that all the planets had moved farther from each other, that
   all objects around us had become larger, that we ourselves
   had become taller, and that the distance traveled by light in
   the duration of a vibration had become greater, we should not
   hesitate to think ourselves the victims of an illusion, that
   in reality all these distances had remained fixt, and that all
   these appearances were due to a shortening of the rule which we
   had used as the standard for measuring the lengths.--LUCIAN
   POINCARE, “The New Physics and Its Evolution.”

    (2652)


   =Releasing the Word of Life=--See WORD OF GOD FREED.


                             RELIC VALUED

   Byron’s remains rest in an old leaden coffin, side by side
   with those of his mother, and close by lies his daughter, Ada,
   Countess of Lovelace, who died in 1852. When the vault was
   opened to permit of the interment of Lady Lovelace many persons
   visited the church in order to catch a glimpse of the coffin.
   Upon one occasion a little girl was prevailed upon to descend by
   the stone staircase into the vault and she returned carrying a
   narrow strip of faded velvet in her hand, torn from the poet’s
   coffin. Among the group around the mouth of the graves was a
   tall, dark foreigner, who eagerly questioned the child as to
   her possession, and finally, in exchange for a piece of gold,
   received the strip of cloth. That man was Kossuth.--_Frank
   Leslie’s._

    (2653)


   =Relief by Crying=--See CRYING BENEFICIAL.


   =Religion=--See ALTAR, THE; CHARACTER.


                           RELIGION A GROWTH

Time goes to the making of the oak, and the man and the Christian.
Moral development is slow. We must not be surprized nor disappointed to
find it so. As one says:

   The sunrise is gradual, as we have seen--there are many
   tremulous gleams before the wheels of his chariot are moving
   over the sea. And so we should beware in a measure of momentary
   impulsive religion: the idea that we can pass in a moment from
   deadness, darkness, worldliness, to the full assurance of the
   favor of God. There are such cases, but they are rare, and the
   religion of sudden emotion is apt with many to prove not lasting.

If religion is a growth, let us be patient in the process.

    (2654)


                          RELIGION, A TEST OF

   Addressing a big Methodist camp-meeting, Bishop Quayle informed
   his audience how to discern a Christian by street-car manners.
   “If you are hanging on a strap in a crowded street-car, and
   the conductor calls out ‘Step forward, please,’ and there is
   no place in front where you can step forward, the way you act
   will be a test of your religion. If you are a woman, and a man
   gives you his seat, and you act as if you thought it was your
   right and not his kindness that gave you the seat, the way you
   act will test you more than answering questions in theology.
   It is not how you treat some big body, but how you treat a
   little urchin, dirty in tears, that tests your religion. What
   you do when you are off duty--that’s what counts. What if the
   people who see us at church and at weddings should see us in
   the betweens? What we Christians do ofttimes kills faith in the
   Church. Anybody can see a rose-garden in the daytime, but we can
   also smell it in the dark. What we do when nobody sees us ought
   to be as beautiful as what we do in the open.”

    (2655)


                        RELIGION ALLAYING FEAR

   Athens had two cities--down in the plain was the city of work,
   with shops, ox carts, plows and hoes, on the hillside were
   the shops where men bought and sold. But the crags above were
   crowned with temples, where beauty and worship had their home.
   Oft in the hours of tumult and strife, when the workers feared
   the coming of enemies, they turned their thoughts upward toward
   the Parthenon, and drank in the beauty of Athena’s face, and
   her calm, white hand seemed to fall upon the brow, to allay
   the fear, and breathe peace to the frightened working men.
   Greek culture and character represented the interplay of the
   upper and the lower city. So it is that man’s life of work, and
   his invisible life of faith and worship are knitted together.
   The inventor, the statesman, not less than the saint and the
   martyr, endure, as seeing God. (Text.)--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2656)


   =Religion Among Immigrants=--See IMMIGRATION.


   =Religion and Dying=--See DEATH, THE CHRISTIAN’S.


   =Religion and Parents=--See PARENTS AS TEACHERS OF RELIGION.


                          RELIGION AND POETRY

   When will the true prophet, priest, poet, preacher come to us?
   For we are continually reminded that it is by the voice of the
   poet only that a nation is permitted to survive. Jerusalem
   has been permitted to come down to us forever glorified;
   she cherished the poets; but where is Babylon, who cast the
   prophets in the lion’s den? Nineveh was a city of three days’
   journey; Nineveh would not hear; and where is Nineveh now?
   But, Jerusalem, city of poetry and song! A little place; you
   can cover it with a pin’s head on the maps of the world; and
   yet she covers more space in history, sacred and profane, than
   all the other cities of the world together. And this is simply
   because she had faith and hope; and so had her poets, and did
   not despise them, and her poets made her immortal. The cloven
   foot of the golden calf is stamping out every page of this
   great, neglected book. So great is the wealth of the leading
   families of our cities that almost every hearthstone might be
   paved with gold. Yet Socrates died for want of money enough
   to pay a fine. True or false, the Greeks had gods, even the
   unknown God of which Paul spoke, and they believed. They had
   faith and hope. And so their poets sang, sang in marble. Song is
   music, song is the eternal melody of beauty, and their country
   lives.--JOAQUIN MILLER, _Belford’s Magazine_.

    (2657)


   =Religion Demanded=--See INFLUENCE, PERSONAL.


                           RELIGION DIFFUSED

   Three hundred years ago there was but one Bible in a parish in
   England, and that was chained to a column in the church; and
   there was but one man to read it--the priest. And the people
   did not understand it then, and it was a part of official duty
   to go from house to house on the theory that the average parent
   did not know enough to teach the children the first principles
   of morality and of religion. Go to-day over the same community,
   and on the Sabbath morning you shall see the girls and the
   young men with Bibles under their arms, themselves teachers,
   going down to mission-schools, going down to instruct their
   inferiors. The profession has distributed its functions among
   the common people. Has it destroyed the profession? It never was
   stronger, never was as strong as it is to-day.--HENRY WARD
   BEECHER.

    (2658)


                            RELIGION, EARLY

The following letter was written by the late Prof. Borden P. Bowne,
of Boston University, when he was a boy in Pennington Seminary. It
foreshadows his long life of Christian service:

    Pennington, October 10.

   Dear ----:

   His name is still Jesus, for He saves His people from their
   sins. By His grace I have kept the faith, and have not denied
   His name. On Sunday night we had service in the chapel of the
   institution. I told of the power of Jesus’ blood to cleanse
   from all sin. There seemed to be none that believed my report;
   at least none gave in such a testimony. I felt rather deprest
   in spirit; but after service was over, as I was talking to some
   other brother, I heard a noise in one of the rooms; proceeding
   thither, we found that a young man had just been blest. We
   rejoiced with him and we held an impromptu prayer-meeting, and
   then God was pleased to make Himself known in power to four or
   five more; and together we glorified the God of Israel. Glory to
   Jesus! I was comforted and blest. The tempter whispered to me
   sweetly that I had best not mention the matter of sanctification
   any more. But by God’s grace I shall hold up the standard of
   holiness to the Lord. There are one or two who profess it
   here, but they don’t seem to say much about it. ----, it is my
   ambition to be one of the best of men. I want to be able to look
   at the promise alone; and because God has said it I believe it.
   I have instituted family worship with my room-mate; morning
   and evening I endeavor to call upon God with him. He is not
   religious; he is a young boy fifteen or sixteen years old, a
   very nice young fellow. May the Lord lead him to Himself. Amen
   and amen.

    (2659)


                           RELIGION, FAMILY

   In a sermon on “The Debt Parents Owe to their Children,” Newell
   Dwight Hillis, D.D., of Plymouth Church, Brooklyn, told of a
   parent who had said to him: “For twenty years neither myself
   nor my family have paid attention to Christianity. And now I
   have learned to my sorrow that the Christian Church is the only
   place in which to bring up a family. If I had ten sons I would
   compel them to marry wives reared in the Christian Church and
   the Christian home, who have the Christian method and Christian
   spirit of rearing children. (Text.)

    (2660)


                        RELIGION, IMPORTANCE OF

   Lecky says that the humble meeting in Aldersgate Street where
   John Wesley was converted forms an epoch in English history;
   and he adds that the religious revolution begun in England by
   the preaching of the Wesleys is of greater historic importance
   than all the splendid victories by land and sea won under
   Pitt.--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (2661)


   =Religion in Work=--See WORK PROVING RELIGION.


   =Religion of Great Men=--See PRAYER BY GREAT LEADERS.


   =Religion, Practical=--See WITNESS OF SERVICE.


                          RELIGION, SHADES OF

   It has been well said that as the prism exhibits the various
   colors contained in light, so mankind displays the various forms
   and shades of religion.

    (2662)


                           RELIGION, SHALLOW

Religion has not done much for a man if it has not moderated the savage
passions of his nature. Prof. Fred. M. Davenport says:

   I once spent an evening listening, with a couple of friends,
   to an old darky’s account of his conversion. He had reached
   the climax of the recital, was in a considerable state of
   ecstasy, and was very anxiously seeking to impress us all with
   his spiritual experience, when suddenly his dog began barking
   furiously just behind him and utterly broke the continuity of
   his thought and of his speech. I think no one of us will ever
   forget the dash of savagery that came into his face as he turned
   with flashing eye and foaming lip upon that canine intruder. It
   was a startling transition, revealing the crater of primitive
   passion just underneath the crust of religious culture and
   nurture.--_The Contemporary Review._

    (2663)


                          RELIGION THAT WEARS

   The Persian carpet may be meant for the feet, but few things are
   so full of lessons for head and heart and life. When choosing
   one the first thing to do is to make sure that the colors are
   fast, which is done by moistening a handkerchief and rubbing the
   carpet to see if the color comes off. Next, count the stitches.
   A good carpet contains 10,000 stitches to the square foot, while
   the better ones have as many as 40,000. The weaver does not
   see the pattern as he works, as the reverse side of the web is
   toward him. When a native buys a new carpet he immediately puts
   it down in the bazaars for all the traffic to pass over it; and
   the more muddy the shoes of the passers-by the greater will be
   the beauty of the carpet afterward, provided the colors are
   fast, as it acquires that beautiful silky gloss, so dear to the
   heart of the carpet-lover.

A man needs a character that will wear, whose colors are fast, and that
will grow more beautiful when exposed for the world’s use.

    (2664)


                          RELIGION TO DIE BY

   Wesley always insisted on judging religion by the most severely
   practical tests. Life was one test, and he mistrusted profoundly
   a religion which did not fill life or its possessor with
   gladness and strength. But he knew that death, with its mystery
   and loneliness, was the last and sorest test of religion. Did
   the religion he preached make that last darkness luminous? Did
   it put songs on dying lips and gladness in dying hearts? “The
   world,” wrote Wesley, “may not like our Methodists, but the
   world can not deny that they die well,” and the religion which
   teaches men to die well may surely find in that fact its best
   credentials.--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (2665)


                         RELIGION UNCHANGEABLE

   Farmers once plowed with a forked stick, and now with the steel
   gang-plow. But Julius Cæsar said, nearly twenty centuries ago,
   that a soldier should have a pound of wheat per day, and the
   German Government allows the same pound of wheat per day to
   its soldiers, for their day’s march. Gone Julius Cæsar’s forked
   stick for raising the pound of wheat. The Italian plows with a
   steel mole-board, but he still wants his pound of flour for his
   hunger. Gone also the old offerings in the temples, and the old
   creeds, and the old views of the Sabbath. But man still sings,
   and prays, and struggles with temptation, and weeps, smiting
   upon his breast, and is forgiven, and dies. This religious
   nature of man abides unshaken; the credal leaves fall off; but
   the tree grows on. That vital growth is called religion--the
   life of God in the soul of man.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2666)


                       RELIGION VERSUS BUSINESS

   The improvement of Egypt in the control of inundation by the
   great Assouan dam of the Nile has unfortunately drowned and is
   destroying the magnificent temple ruins on the island of Philæ.
   That only hurts a sentiment of antiquarian reverence and makes
   bread for many poor. But if our rush of business drowns out
   our family worship, and tires us too much for a second Sabbath
   service, it may cost us more than its gains are worth. We need
   to remember that our life is sacred, for we are the temple of
   God. (Text.)--FRANKLIN NOBLE, “Sermons in Illustration.”

    (2667)


                         RELIGIONS CONTRASTED

   Seventeen hundred years ago a Christian teacher gave a
   description of an Egyptian temple, with its porticoes and
   vestibules and groves and sacred fields adjoining, the walls
   gleaming with precious stones and artistic paintings, and its
   shrines veiled with gold-embroidered hangings. “But,” he says,
   “if you enter the penetralia of the enclosure and ask the
   officiating priest to unveil the god of this sanctuary, you will
   find a cat, or a crocodile, or a serpent--a beast--rolling on a
   purple couch.” And a modern writer asks us to contrast this with
   the temple of Jehovah at Jerusalem. Here, too, you would find a
   gorgeous building, a priesthood, altars, and a shrine hidden by
   a veil. Within the veil stands the Ark of the Covenant, covered
   by the mercy seat, sprinkled with the blood of atonement, and
   shadowed by the golden cherubim. Let that covering be lifted,
   and within that ark, in the very core and center of Israel’s
   religion, in its most sacred place, you find, what? The two
   tables of the moral law. There, in a word, you have the contrast
   of the two religions. The moral law, enforced by the belief
   in the one true God--that is the religion of Israel--and that
   religion was interpreted, fulfilled, and consummated by the
   revelation of the Christ.--THOMAS F. GAILOR, “Student
   Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (2668)

  [Illustration]


                   RELIGIOUS CONDITIONS OF THE WORLD

   This chart indicates the magnitude of the task before the
   Christian forces of the world in bringing humanity up to
   Christian standards. The significance of Christian missionary
   and evangelizing work may be represented as an attempt of
   one-third of mankind constituting the Protestant, Roman Catholic
   and Greek Christian countries through a small band of picked
   workers, to change the religious habits, opinions and faith of
   the other two-thirds. But God has provided that this great task
   shall be accomplished.

    (2669)


                          RELIGIOUS EDUCATION

   A friend tells me that one of her earliest childhood memories
   is of being awakened by her mother before daybreak on a June
   morning. “Come, child,” she said, “come with me over to the
   pines, to hear the thrushes sing.” Across the dew-wet meadows
   they went, in the early flush of morning, and the child, her
   hand clasped in her mother’s, listened with her to the exquisite
   music of the thrush in the holy hour and place.

   What need of words? It is the spirit that giveth life. The
   flame was kindled in the heart of the child because it burned
   undimmed in the mother’s heart. Not by preaching, nor even by
   much speaking, will our teachers teach religion. But they will
   surely teach whose lives abide in the shadow of the Almighty. We
   can not but speak the things we have seen and heard. Striving
   to do His will in the school-room, we slowly learn of the
   doctrine, and the truth we have made our own we are enabled
   to share.--SARAH LOUISE ARNOLD, “Proceedings of the
   Religious Education Association,” 1905.

    (2670)


                  RELIGIOUS INFRACTIONS OF PROPRIETY

   There are religious infractions of propriety, and they are
   serious. The Chinese word for propriety is an ideograph made
   up of two parts; one means to proclaim, or to reveal; the
   other means a sacrificial vessel. That is, propriety in the
   group of countries dominated by Chinese etiquette is a matter
   of religion and so is not to be lightly regarded. But what
   does one witness at the temples? Not infrequently one sees a
   missionary stalk boldly into a temple. He may not take off his
   shoes in Japan before walking over the polished temple floors.
   Very possibly he walks up to the idol and familiarly pats him
   with his ever-present cane. It is to the believer in those
   faiths like taking hold of the Ark of the Covenant in ancient
   Jewish times. We should remember that ridiculing the beliefs
   of people is poor missionary policy. They are usually the best
   that that country, or people, know. Let us not profane those
   things which are held most sacred. We may argue against them
   and reason about the unwisdom of holding them, but let us never
   laugh at the religious views and practises of the non-Christian
   world.--H. P. BEACH, “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (2671)


                         RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION

   “Let the child wait till he has grown and then choose his
   own religion,” said an English statesman in the hearing of
   Coleridge. Coleridge, leading his friend into the garden, said:
   “I have decided not to put out any vegetables this spring, but
   to wait till August and let the garden decide for itself whether
   it prefers weeds or strawberries.” This is the logic of the
   delayed instruction theory.--A. B. BUNN VAN ORMER,
   “Studies in Religious Nurture.”

    (2672)


                     RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION DENIED

   In the psychological confession of a writer (Sentenis), a German
   philosopher whom his father had submitted to the experiment
   advised by the author of “Émile,” he tells us that, left alone
   by the death of a tenderly loved wife, this father, a learned
   and thoughtful man, had taken his infant son to a retired place
   in the country; and not allowing him communication with any
   one, he had cultivated the child’s intelligence through the
   sight of natural objects placed near him, and by the beauty of
   language, almost without books, and in carefully concealing from
   him all idea of God. The child reached his tenth year without
   having either read or heard that great name. But then his mind
   formed what had been denied it. The sun which he saw rise each
   morning seemed the all-powerful benefactor of whom he felt the
   need. He soon formed the habit of going at dawn to the garden
   to pay homage to that god that he himself had made. His father
   surprized him one day, and showed him his error by teaching him
   that all fixt stars are so many suns distributed in space. But
   such was the keen disappointment and the grief of the child
   deprived of his worship, that the father, overcome, acknowledged
   to him that there is a God, the Creator of the heavens and the
   earth.--A. B. BUNN VAN ORMER, “Studies in Religious
   Nurture.”

    (2673)


   =Religious Narrowness=--See REGULARITY, ECCLESIASTICAL.


                          RELIGIOUS TRAINING

   Suppose a sculptor should take a piece of marble and stand it
   in front of his studio on the sidewalk, and should invite every
   passer-by to have a stroke at it with mallet and chisel, shaping
   it according to the fancy or the caprice of the moment, and
   then at the end of the year have it suddenly endowed with life,
   and ask it to choose what it would be--the shape of a god or of
   a satyr, of beauty or ugliness, pure and white or stained and
   soiled--this man would be rational as compared with the one who
   believes that you can let a child grow up until he is twenty
   unbiased, without absorbing any religious ideas or convictions,
   and then freely choose what he will be. If you do not bias the
   child, the first that he meets on the street, or in his school,
   or among his companions, will begin the work of biasing, of
   impression, of education, of training; for this is a continuous
   process. Whether you will or not, it is something over which you
   have no choice. It is something that will be done either wisely
   and well, or unwisely and ill.--MINOT J. SAVAGE.

    (2674)


   =Remainders Saved=--See CONSERVATION OF REMAINDERS.


   =Remains of Insects=--See INSECTS OF REMOTE TIMES.


                           REMEDIES, STRANGE

There are many remedies, real or reputed for physical ills, but there
is but one sovereign remedy for body, soul and spirit, namely, the life
of God fully received into the human soul. In an article on “Strange
Medicines,” in the _Nineteenth Century_, Miss Cumming quotes a few
of the healing spells which to this day are practised by the peasantry
of various districts in Great Britain, and which are considered certain
remedies:

   The Northumbrian cure for warts is to take a large snail,
   rub the wart well with it, and then impale the snail on a
   thorn-hedge. As the creature wastes away the warts will surely
   disappear. In the west of England eel’s blood serves the same
   purpose. For goiter or wen, the hand of a dead child must be
   rubbed nine times across the lump, or, still better, the hand of
   a suicide may be substituted. In the vicinity of Stamfordham,
   in Northumberland, whooping-cough is cured by putting the head
   of a live trout into the patient’s mouth, and letting the trout
   breathe into the latter. Or else a hairy caterpillar is put
   into a small bag and tied around the child’s neck. The cough
   ceases as the insect dies. Another cure for whooping-cough is
   offerings of hair. In Sunderland the crown of the head is shaved
   and the hair hung upon a bush or tree, with the full faith that
   as the birds carry away the hair, so will the cough vanish. In
   Lincolnshire a girl suffering from the ague cuts a lock of her
   hair and binds it around an aspen-tree, praying the latter to
   shake in her sted. The remedy for a toothache at Tavistock, in
   Devonshire, is to bite a tooth from a skull in the churchyard
   and keep it always in the pocket. At Loch Carron, in Ross-shire,
   an occasional cure for erysipelas is to cut off half the ear
   of a cat and let the blood drip on the inflamed surface. In
   Cornwall the treatment for the removal of whelks or small
   pimples from the eyelids of children is to pass the tail of a
   black cat nine times over the part affected. Toads are made to
   do service in divers manners in Cornwall and Northampton for
   the cure of nose-bleeding and quinsy, while “toad powder,” or
   even a live toad or spider shut up in a box, is still in some
   places accounted as useful a charm against contagion as it was
   in the days of Sir Kenelm Digby. The old smallpox and dropsy
   remedy known as _pulvis Ethiopicus_, was nothing more nor
   less than powdered toad. In Devonshire any person bitten by
   a viper is advised to kill the creature at once and rub the
   wound with its fat. It is said that this practise has survived
   in some portions of the United States, where the flesh of the
   rattlesnake is accounted the best cure for its own bite. Black,
   in his “Folk Medicine,” states that the belief in the power of
   snake-skin as a cure for rheumatism still exists in New England.
   Such a belief is probably a direct heritage from Britain.

    (2675)

       *       *       *       *       *

The following is the belief of Eastern Jews in very queer remedies:

   For hoarseness and complaints of the throat and air-passages an
   approved prescription is to take a new plate, write on it with
   ink the three mystic names compounded of the Hebrew letters,
   “Ain, Yod, Aelph,” “Vau, Teth,” and “Teth, Yod, Koph”; then
   wash them out with wine, and after adding three grains of a
   citron used at the tabernacle festival, drink the beverage.
   Fits, epileptic, and ordinary, are treated after the following
   fashion: The patient’s head is covered and a pious neighbor
   stands by the bedside while the “practitioner” called in recites
   this invocation: “In the name of the Lord of Israel, in the name
   of the angel Raphael, and in the name of the hosts of heaven,
   and in the name of the One hidden and concealed, I adjure you
   to quit the body of So-and-So, the son of So-and-So, to quit
   him at once and without doing him hurt; and if you do not go,
   I curse you with the curse of the tribunal above and of the
   tribunal below, and with the curse of Joshua, the son of Nun.”
   In cases of severe prostration and debility, pounded mummy and
   human bones are administered, but this is considered a very
   dangerous medicine and great precautions are taken to prevent
   evil spirits interfering with the patient or hindering his
   recovery.--_Public Opinion._

    (2676)


                           REMEDY FOR PESTS

Is not the remedy for many evils to be found by allowing one
destructive force to overcome another? God so makes “the wrath of man
to praise him.”

   One day a very small orange-tree was taken out of the ground
   in Australia and sent with many others across the ocean to
   California. On this small tree there were a few white insects.
   The little tree was planted again in California and soon
   put out many fresh, fragrant leaves. The white insects were
   astonished and rejoiced that day after day went by without the
   appearance of any red beetles. The white insects increased in
   numbers; there were thousands of fragrant-leaved orange-trees
   in California, and in a few years there were millions of white
   insects in them. One morning a man stood among the trees and
   said, “Confound these bugs; they’ll ruin me; what shall I do?”
   and a man who knew said, “Get some red beetles from Australia.”
   So this orange-grower, with some others, paid a man to go to
   Australia and collect some live red beetles. The collector
   went across the ocean, three weeks’ steady steaming, and sent
   back a few of the voracious little beetles in a pill-box. They
   were put into a tree in a California orange-orchard in which
   there were many cottony-cushion scale insects. The red insects
   promptly began eating the white ones; and their children and
   grandchildren and great-grandchildren have kept up this eating
   ever since. And so the orange-growers never tire of telling how
   the red beetles (whose name is _Vedalia_) were brought from
   Australia to save them from ruin by the white insects (whose
   name is _Icerya_).--VERNON L. KELLOGG, “Insect
   Stories.”

    (2677)


   =Remembering=--See FORGETTING AND REMEMBERING.


   =Remembering the Good=--See OLD YEAR MEMORIES.


                           REMINDER, SEVERE

   The Burgundians in France, in a statute now eleven hundred years
   old, attributed valor to the east of France because it had a law
   that the children should be taken to the limits of the district,
   and there soundly whipt, in order that they might forever
   remember the boundary-line.--WENDELL PHILLIPS.

    (2678)


                               REMINDERS

   A little boy had lost both parents by death. There were no
   relatives to care for him, and a place had therefore been found
   for him with a family in the country.

   It was a ride of several miles to the strange home, and the
   farmer, who had agreed to transport him thither noticed that the
   little fellow sitting so shyly beside him in the great wagon
   often thrust his hand into his worn blouse as if to make sure of
   some treasure. Curiosity at last prompted the man to ask what
   it was. He had been kind during the journey, and so the child
   hesitatingly confided his secret.

   “It’s just a piece of mother’s dress. When I get kind--kind o’
   lonesome--I like to feel it. Most seems ’s if she--wasn’t so far
   off.”

    (2679)


                         REMINDERS, UNPLEASANT

The man in the following incident underwent a painful operation to
remove marks that reminded him of unpleasant things. There is a promise
of greater blessing from one who said, “Tho your sins be as scarlet
they shall be white as snow.”

   Dr. Berchon was consulted by a rich man who asked him to remove
   a tattooed design that had been made in his youth and doubtless
   reminded him constantly of his humble beginnings. Berchon, a
   well-read man, used the ancient method of Crito, described
   by Paul of Ægina. Crito washed the tattooed part with niter
   and then enveloped it in resin, which was allowed to remain
   several days to soften the skin. The design was then scraped
   with a sharp instrument, the wound was washed and rubbed with
   salt, after which a sort of plaster was applied, consisting of
   frankincense, nitrate of potash, lye, lime, wax, and honey.
   Several days later the marks disappeared. (Text.)--_La
   Nature._

    (2680)


                                REMORSE

   Haime was a Dorsetshire lad, violent in temper, gross in speech,
   utterly lawless in conduct. He was visited with what is to-day
   an almost unthinkable spiritual experience--a very violent
   temptation to blaspheme God. He yielded at last, in the silence
   of his heart framed the dreadful words, and was then told by the
   tempter, “Thou art inevitably damned.” The unhappy youth was
   broken-hearted. He swung for a time betwixt plans of suicide and
   wild rushes into vicious pleasure. The terrors of sin haunted
   him. He had experiences which can hardly be paralleled out of
   monkish literature.

   “One night, as I was going to bed, I durst not lie down without
   prayer. So, falling upon my knees, I began to consider, ‘What
   can I pray for? I have neither the will nor the power to do
   anything good.’ Then it darted into my mind, ‘I will not pray,
   neither will I be beholden to God for mercy.’ I arose from my
   knees without prayer, and laid me down; but not in peace. I
   never had such a night before. I was as if my very body had been
   in a fire, and I had a hell in my conscience. I was thoroughly
   persuaded the devil was in the room.”--W. H. FITCHETT,
   “Wesley and His Century.”

    (2681)


                                RENEWAL

M. E. Hume-Griffith, in her “Behind the Veil in Persia and Turkish
Arabia,” tells of a little Persian boy badly disfigured from a
“hare-lip,” who was brought by his father to the medical mission at
Julfa to be operated upon for the trouble.

   The Persians believe that this congenital malformation is the
   mark left by the Evil One, so this afflicted boy was known in
   his village by the unenviable title “little devil,” and had been
   a good deal tormented by his playfellows. The operation was a
   complete success. After ten days’ careful treatment the dressing
   was finally removed, and the boy was handed a mirror that he
   might look for the first time upon his “new” face. Tears of joy
   rolled down his face as he kissed the hand that had wrought
   the change, and he murmured brokenly: “I am no longer a little
   devil, I am no longer a little devil!” And he went back to his
   comrades to be a hero and an idol.

    (2682)

       *       *       *       *       *

The difference between men who are taking in and giving out life and
knowledge and men who are living in their own selfish circle is like
the difference in lakes stated below:

   Fresh-water lakes are always only expansions of rivers, due to
   the particular topographical configuration of a valley. They are
   all characterized by the fact that the water that they receive
   runs out, either continuously or intermittently, and that the
   chemical constitution of their water remains constantly the same
   as that of the streams and rivers of the same region.

   Salt lakes, on the other hand, are always closed basins,
   without outlet, and their water is removed only by surface
   evaporation. These facts being well understood, we see at once
   why the former lakes contain fresh water and the others salt
   water.(Text.)--PAUL COMBES, _Cosmos_.

    (2683)

   See INNER LIFE.


                           RENEWAL NECESSARY

   If I have a certain sum of money, I can calculate what
   necessities it will meet, and how far it will go; but it will go
   only so far; beyond that is exhaustion. But if I have a bed of
   strawberries in my garden, after it has borne the crop of the
   season, and there is no more to be got from it, I can weed and
   cultivate and fertilize it, and next year it will bear again.
   And tho the whole bed shows exhaustion, I can set its runners
   in new rows and nurture them into new life, tho the old plants
   are only fit to be dug under; and I can renew the life of my bed
   and after a season it will be as young and fresh and fertile as
   ever. I have completely renewed its life. So I can renew the
   life of a note, or lease, or partnership. So bodily strength,
   tho exhausted every day, is renewed every night; and even if
   impaired by disease, it may be recovered. There is nothing
   necessarily hopeless in the exhaustion of anything that has
   life in it; but all living things need renewal.--FRANKLIN
   NOBLE, “Sermons in Illustration.”

    (2684)


                          RENEWAL, SPIRITUAL

   A lady calling upon a friend one day, exprest surprize that she
   had both windows open while the thermometer was at zero, saying
   that she never opened her windows in winter, adding that even
   then she was unable to keep warm.

   “I open my windows,” was the explanation, “to warm the rooms
   by filling them with fresh air. It is impossible to heat dead
   air. To inhale the same air over and over again is to breathe in
   poison.”

As “it is impossible to heat dead air,” so it is impossible to incite
zeal in a dead church. The breath of the Spirit is first needed to
change the spiritual climate. (Text.)

    (2685)


   =Renewing the Faith=--See EXTREMITY NOT FINAL.


                              RENOVATION

The verses below by Sam Walter Foss, from a poem on “The Soul Spring
Cleaning,” have in them a suggestion that every man may now and then
utilize:

    Yes, clean yer house, an’ clean yer shed,
      An’ clean yer barn in ev’ry part;
    But brush the cobwebs from yer head,
      An’ sweep the snow-banks from yer heart.
    Yes, w’en spring cleanin’ comes aroun’
      Bring forth the duster an’ the broom,
    But rake yer fogy notions down,
      An’ sweep yer dusty soul of gloom.

    Plant flowers in the soul’s front yard,
      Set out new shade an’ blossom trees,
    An’ let the soul once froze an’ hard
      Sprout crocuses of new idees.
    Yes, clean yer house, an’ clean yer shed,
      An’ clean yer barn in ev’ry part;
    But brush the cobwebs from yer head,
      An’ sweep the snow-banks from yer heart!(Text.)

    (2686)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Each great European cathedral has its regular corps of
   repairers--architects, engineers, masons, carpenters, every
   man a master of his craft. The work of renovation goes on at
   all seasons; crumbling stones must be replaced, fresh cement
   supplied, broken parts mended; there is always something needing
   to be done. The inexperienced traveler is at first much annoyed
   by the sight of the stagings and scaffoldings from which
   cathedral walls seem never wholly free. “When,” he exclaims,
   “shall I at last find a façade which is not in the process of
   repair?” But with larger knowledge and more careful thought his
   feelings change.

   The flimsy, unsightly framework clinging to the ancient gray
   stone no longer seems a blemish, but a true adornment, since
   it eloquently tells of the reverent, affectionate care which
   faithfully preserves for the future these “poems in stone”
   handed down from the mighty past.--“Monday Club, Sermons on the
   International Sunday-school Lessons for 1904.”

    (2687)


                             RENUNCIATION

Dr. R. F. Horton, in the _Christian Endeavor World_, tells this
incident concerning a wedding where he officiated:

   A very little man had brought to the altar a very big bride,
   who, moreover, was attired in purple, and certainly bore a
   formidable aspect.

   Whether the situation affected the bridegroom, or in a dreamy
   reminiscence his mind wandered back to childhood and the
   catechism when, on the mention of the world and the flesh and
   the devil, he promised to have nothing to do with them, I
   can not say. But sure enough, when I put to him the crucial
   question, “Wilt thou have this woman to be thy wedded wife?” the
   answer came, low but clear, “I renounce them all!” It was with
   some compunction that I said to him, “You must say, ‘I will.’”

    (2688)


                        RENUNCIATION, COMPLETE

   There is an ancient legend of a devout man who had, among many
   other virtues, the gift of healing, unto whom divers made resort
   for cure; among the rest one Chromatius, being sick, sent for
   him. Being come, he told of his sickness, and desired that he
   might have the benefit of cure as others had before him. “I can
   not do it,” said the devout person, “till thou hast beaten all
   the idols and images in thy house to pieces.” “That shall be
   done,” said Chromatius. “Here, take my keys, and where you find
   any images let them be defaced,” which was done accordingly. To
   prayer went the holy man, but no cure was wrought. “Oh!” saith
   Chromatius, “I am as sick as ever. I am very sick and weak!” “It
   can not be otherwise,” replied the holy man; “nor can I help it,
   for certainly there is one idol more in your house undiscovered,
   and that must be defaced, too.” “True,” said Chromatius. “There
   is so, indeed; there is one all of beaten gold. It cost two
   hundred pounds. I would fain have saved it, but here, take my
   keys again. You shall find it locked up fast in my chest. Take
   it and break it in pieces.” Which done, the holy man prayed and
   Chromatius was healed. (Text.)

    (2689)


                          REPAIR OF CHARACTER

   After every trip a locomotive goes into the round-house, where
   it is overhauled, cleaned, and every bolt and nut is tightened.
   About every four years it goes into the shop, is taken to pieces
   and made over anew. The criteria in every case are: Can she haul
   the load? and can she make schedule time?

It would be a good thing for men thus to overhaul their habits and
tendencies, in order to maintain the integrity and efficiency of
character. (Text.)

    (2690)


   =Reparation=--See DUTY, SENSE OF.


                               REPARTEE

   We rejoice more than all in the constant progress of those
   liberal ideas to which such an impulse was given by the victory
   of Yorktown. You remember that Fox is said to have heard of it
   “with a wild delight”; and even he may not have anticipated its
   full future outcome. You remember the hissing hate with which
   he was often assailed, as when the tradesmen of Westminster
   whose vote he had solicited flung back at him the answer: “I
   have nothing for you, sir, but a halter,” to which Fox, by the
   way, with instant wit and imperturbable good nature, smilingly
   responded: “I could not think, my dear sir, of depriving you of
   such an interesting family relic.”--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (2691)


                               REPAYMENT

The baronet in the following story followed nature’s favorite method of
repaying in kind:

   James McNeil Whistler, the famous artist, was extravagantly
   fond of a French poodle that he owned, says the New York
   _Tribune_, and once, when the little dog had some trouble
   with his throat, he sent for Sir Morell Mackenzie, the great
   throat specialist. Mackenzie was not a bit pleased by being
   called in to treat a dog, but he prescribed, nevertheless, and
   had a partial revenge by charging a big fee. The next day he
   “got even” most effectually by sending for Mr. Whistler in great
   haste, and the artist, thinking that he had been summoned on
   some matter connected with his beloved poodle, dropt his work
   and rushed to Mackenzie’s house. On his arrival, Sir Morell said
   very gravely: “How do you do, Mr. Whistler? I wished to see you
   about painting my front door.” (Text.)

    (2692)


                            REPEATED EFFORT

Persuasion is constantly tried, often with no success whatever. The
reason of failure is frequently found in the neglect of perseverance.

   In a very small Bible class of young men the fall of Jericho
   was the subject of discussion on a certain Sunday. One of the
   members suggested that more members might be brought in if some
   of the faith of the besiegers of old were used. Another member
   at once suggested that a list of those advisable should be made,
   and that each should be “encompassed” by calls on seven days,
   each day by a different man. The suggestion was adopted. Next
   day a young business man received a visit and an invitation to
   attend the class next Sunday. He was indifferent and did not
   promise. On Tuesday the second called and was treated coldly.
   But on Wednesday when a third man called the effect showed. “Two
   men have called already; I am considering,” said he. On Thursday
   when the fourth visitor called, down came the walls. He promised
   to attend and attended regularly. Others were won. Among them
   was a musician, who organized a fine orchestra. (Text.)

    (2693)


                              REPENTANCE

    When I’ve a quarrel in my mind
      With one who’s far away
    To scorching letters I’m inclined,
      In which I say my say.

    And then I take those scorching screeds
      So full of ink and ire,
    In which I threaten awful deeds,
      And mail them--in the fire.

    --_Success Magazine._

    (2694)


                           REPENTANCE, LATE

The following striking illustration of the effect of delay in serving
God is by James Drummond, in “Parables and Pictures”:

   There was once a horse that ran away in the morning and did not
   return till evening. When the master upbraided him, the horse
   replied, “But here am I, returned safe and sound. You have your
   horse.” “True,” answered the master, “but my field is unplowed.”
   If a man turns to God in old age, God has the man, but He has
   been defrauded of the man’s work.

    (2695)


                         REPENTANCE, NATURE OF

   No more vivid illustration of what evangelical repentance is
   can be framed than that which is found in the Greek original,
   “_straphate_,” rendered “convert,” which means to face
   about, or turn around, in allusion to the movement of a ship
   when it is put about on an opposite course; or to the action of
   a flower when it turns its face toward the sun. The change of
   mind becomes a change of life.

    (2696)


                         REPENTANCE, PRACTICAL

   When Thomas Olivers, the Welsh cobbler who became noted as a
   Methodist, itinerant and a hymnist, turned from a reckless life,
   carousing and incurring many debts, to a profession of a change
   of heart, he deliberately set about settling his financial
   obligations, nor ceased until the last penny was paid.

He brought forth fruit meet for repentance. (Text.)

    (2697)


                      REPENTANCE THE GIFT OF GOD

John Wesley, that preacher of repentance, sings:

    “Lord, I despair myself to heal,
    I see my sin but can not feel;
    I can not till thy Spirit blow,
    And make the obedient waters flow.
    Speak, gracious Lord, my sickness cure,
    Make my infected nature pure;
    Peace, righteousness and joy impart,
    And pour thyself into my heart.”

    (2698)


                         REPETITION, FORCE OF

Continuous repeated acts of kindness breaking down the pride of an
enemy, repeated annoyances that shape the temper; these or similar
experiences may be illustrated by this extract:

   A stalwart young man at Leavenworth, Kan., recently accepted a
   wager that he could stand a quart of water dropt into his open
   hand, drop by drop, from a height of three feet. Before 500
   drops had fallen into his hand he almost cried with pain and
   said he had enough. After a little water had fallen each drop
   seemed to crush his hand, and a blister in the center of it was
   the result.--Boston _Journal_.

    (2699)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A minister in his walk saw a stone-mason who was trying to break
   a large stone with what seemed a very small hammer. “You never
   can do it,” the minister prophesied. “Sure, sir, that’s all you
   know about breaking stones,” replied Pat, as he hammered away
   industriously. After hundreds of these peckings there came a
   slight crack. A few more, and the great stone fell apart.

   “Now,” asked the Irishman, “would your honor tell me which one
   of these blows it was that broke the stone?” “Why, the last one,
   to be sure,” said the minister. “There you’re wrong, sir,” was
   the reply. “It was the first blow, and the last blow, and all
   the middle ones, sir.”

    (2700)


                             REPLENISHMENT

The moral life of man would soon be exhausted if God by His Spirit did
not continually renew it.

   Water plunging over the rocks at Niagara is intercepted and
   made to turn the giant turbines of electric power plants before
   it is allowed to hurry on its way to the sea. If the waters of
   the Great Lakes were not replenished Niagara would soon run dry
   and our mill-wheels stop. But year by year, and day by day,
   the sun’s rays evaporate the waters of the ocean and lift them
   back again to the mountain tops, whence they flow downward into
   the lakes and rivers.--CHARLES LANE POOR, “The Solar
   System.”

    (2701)


                           REPORTS TO ORDER

   It was my pleasure, some years ago, to report a religious
   meeting for three papers in New York. A discussion of vital
   importance to the Presbyterian Church was promised. The lines
   were closely drawn and the feeling was intense. The day before
   the meeting I went to the editorial offices for instruction.
   Mr. A. said: “We want a fair report, but you know we publish a
   conservative paper, and our space is limited. Give us all that
   is said by the conservative leaders. Of course, the others must
   be treated fairly, but we shall not have space enough for any
   of the addresses on that side; give us a fair report, however.”
   Mr. B. said: “We want a fair report, but you know we publish
   a liberal paper, and our space is limited. Give us all that
   is said by the liberal leaders. Of course, the others must be
   treated fairly, but we shall not have space for any of the
   addresses on that side; give us a fair report, however.” Mr. C.
   said: “We want an absolutely impartial report. Give the leading
   speeches on both sides as fully as possible, and mention every
   speaker who takes part in the discussion. We want a true picture
   of the debate in your report. On the editorial pages we shall
   express our opinion of the arguments advanced, but your report
   should be absolutely colorless.”--JOHN BANCROFT DEVINS,
   “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (2702)


   =Repose=--See SOUNDS.


                        REPRESENTATIVE DIGNITY

   There was great wisdom sententiously exprest in the exclamation
   of a little constable I heard of once who went to arrest a burly
   offender against the statutes, and was threatened with a shaking
   if he did not “clear out.” If it had been a matter of fists
   and muscle, the majesty of the law would have been miserably
   bruised. But the intrepid officer responded: “Do it if you
   please; only remember, if you shake me you shake the whole State
   of Massachusetts.”--THOMAS STARR KING.

    (2703)


   =Repression=--See POWER IN SELF-REPRESSION.


                               REPRISAL

The story of an intelligent dog given below may suggest that the
deceits we practise on others will, sooner or later, be repaid against
ourselves:

   An old lady rented a furnished villa for the summer, and with
   the villa a large dog also went. In the sitting-room of the
   villa there was a very comfortable armchair. The old lady liked
   this chair better than any other in the house. She always made
   for it the first thing. But, alas! she nearly always found
   the chair occupied by the large dog. Being afraid of the dog,
   she never dared bid it harshly to get out of the chair, as
   she feared it might bite her; but instead she would go to the
   window and call “Cats!” Then the dog would rush to the window
   and bark, and the old lady would slip into the vacant chair
   quietly. One day the dog entered the room and found the old lady
   in possession of the chair. He strolled over to the window, and,
   looking out, appeared very much excited, and set up a tremendous
   barking. The old lady rose and hastened to the window to see
   what was the matter, and the dog quietly climbed into the chair.

    (2704)


                              REPUTATION

   After the Civil War many offers of places of honor and fame came
   to Gen. Robert E. Lee. He refused them all, says Thomas Nelson
   Page, in his biography of the soldier. The only position which
   he finally did accept was the presidency of Washington College,
   with a small salary.

   On one of these occasions Lee was approached with the tender of
   the presidency of an insurance company at a salary of $50,000 a
   year. He declined it, saying that it was work with which he was
   not familiar.

   “But, general,” said the representative of the insurance
   company, “you will not be expected to do any work. What we wish
   is the use of your name.”

   “Don’t you think,” said General Lee, “that if my name is worth
   $50,000 a year, I ought to be very careful about taking care of
   it?” (Text.)--_The Youth’s Companion._

    (2705)


                       REPUTATION AND CHARACTER

   Into a certain London establishment some burglars one night made
   their way, expecting a big haul of valuables. They commenced
   operations on an immense and very strong iron safe, feeling sure
   that tho it would be very difficult to force it open, their
   strenuous efforts would be rewarded at last. For several hours
   they used their drills and other implements. When the safe was
   opened they perceived another safe inside the first one, just
   as strong and fully as difficult to open. They at once realized
   that their night’s toil had been all in vain, for it would be
   impossible to open the inner safe before the world would be
   resuming work.

So long as the inner life is strong and unbroken, attacks on a man’s
reputation can not rob him of his real treasure of a good character.

    (2706)


                         REPUTATION, VALUE OF

The following is related of “Stonewall” Jackson:

   He was never an ornamental soldier, being roughly clad and so
   plain as to be frequently taken for far less than he was. He and
   his staff were once compelled to ride through

a field of uncut oats. The owner rushed out in great indignation,
demanding the name of the leader that he might report him.

“My name is Jackson,” replied the general. “What Jackson?” asked the
irate farmer. “General Jackson.” “You don’t mean to tell me that you
are the famous Stonewall Jackson?” the farmer stammered. “That’s what
they call me.” The farmer took off his hat with great reverence and
said: “General Jackson, ride over my whole field. Do what you like with
it, sir.”--_The Sunday Magazine._

    (2707)


   =Requital=--See GRACE; REPAYMENT.


                                RESCUE

   Dr. Cyrus Hamlin, the pioneer missionary to Turkey, was one day
   crossing the Galata Bridge in Constantinople when his attention
   was attracted to a crowd. He prest into it to see its object of
   interest and found a cursing American sailor dying of cholera.
   The missionary asked him a few questions and was answered by
   oaths. He had the man removed to a house, and after a few
   months’ nursing by the Christians of the mission he was able
   to ship for America. On the morning he left, he called on Dr.
   Hamlin and said, “I have been a very wicked man, and have done
   all the evil I could in the world, and now I am going to do all
   the good I can.”

   Three years later, the mission received this letter from him:

      “Dear Mr. Hamlin: Thank God, I will survive the dead! I
      am here workin’ and blowin’ the gospel trumpet on the Eri
      Kanal.

    Yours Brown.”

   Twenty-five years later Dr. Hamlin met a gentleman in Paris who
   had just returned from Honolulu. Said he, “I met a man named
   Brown who has done a great deal of good among the sailors in
   the Pacific. He can go everywhere and anywhere with the Bible.
   He told me that once he was dying, a blasphemous dog, in the
   streets of Constantinople, and you picked him up and saved him
   soul and body.”

    (2708)

       *       *       *       *       *

The worth of man is independent of conditions of life or color of skin.
An exemplification of that fact is recorded in the history of a rescue
in Hongkong harbor:

   While the cyclone was at its highest and it was still a question
   whether the largest steamers in the port would survive the
   storm, the officers of the _Schuylkill_ noticed a vague
   pencil of light through the sheets of rain, lighting up a
   confusion of loose and drifting shipping. For the first two or
   three flashes they thought they were menaced with the new peril
   of lightning, but no detonation followed the flash. A lull
   in the rain showed that the search-light of the second-class
   British cruiser _Azelia_ was following one of her boats
   while it made a desperate struggle to reach the crew of a
   foundering Chinese junk. The pencil of light, now bright, now
   dim, followed the boat as it was pulled by a crew of stout
   British tars and managed with almost incredible cleverness by
   its officer. They saw it alongside the junk, saw the Chinese
   tumble into it half dead with fright and fatigue, and disappear
   beyond the rays of the search-light. Next morning they learned
   that the Chinese were landed safely farther down the harbor, but
   that the boat was crusht like an eggshell against the sea-wall,
   tho the sailors were saved to a man.

    (2709)

       *       *       *       *       *

Many straying souls who have lost the way may be but fallen angels,
whom love and kindness might restore.

   George MacDonald tells of a young woman who had been led astray.
   A minister found her one night on his doorstep, and brought her
   into his house. His little daughter, who was up-stairs with her
   mother, asked, “Mama, who is it papa has in the library?” Her
   mother replied, “It is an angel, dear, who has lost her way, and
   papa is telling her the way back.”

    (2710)

       *       *       *       *       *

This incident has been related of the eminent divine, Edward Irving:

   When a boy in Scotland with his little sister he went down on
   the sands of Solway Firth to meet his uncle, who was coming to
   visit their home. When the tide comes in there, it flows in with
   a rush. It sweeps on like a flood. All the people there know
   this danger of the onrushing sea and guard against it, but these
   little children forgot the time and tide. They were playing in a
   little pool of water. Suddenly a horseman dashed down from the
   mountain side. Without a word he came up on a run, secured the
   two children to the saddle and started for the hills. Faster and
   faster followed the rising tide, but at last the horseman and
   his precious load were saved.

The Christian must waste no time if he would save imperilled men.
(Text.)

    (2711)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A policeman shouted to a boy in the Lancaster Canal at Preston,
   England, “Hullo! Why are you bathing there?” “Please, sir, I’m
   not; I’m drowning,” was the boy’s answer, and he promptly sank.
   The policeman dived and rescued him.

Many persons who are supposed to be having a good time in the world are
really losing their lives.

    (2712)

   See KONGO MISSIONARY; LISTENING FOR SIGNALS.


                         RESENTMENT, FREE FROM

A writer in the _Saturday Evening Post_ speaks thus concerning
Lincoln and Lee:

   On several occasions I heard him speak most feelingly of the
   defamation heaped upon him by the South, but never did he
   exhibit the semblance of resentment. More than once I have heard
   him say: “If these people only knew us better it would be well
   for both of us.” He always spoke of them as “these people,” as
   did General Robert E. Lee, who in personal intercourse usually
   referred to the Union army when in front of him as “these
   people.” His last order to Longstreet before Pickett’s charge at
   Gettysburg was: “These people are there and they must be driven
   away.” Both of these great characters of our Civil War are now
   remembered, and will be remembered for all time, as having never
   uttered a sentence of resentment relating to their opponents in
   the war.

    (2713)


                              RESERVATION

   An old Indian in northwestern Canada, who for many years had
   hated Christians, was at last brought to the Savior and wished
   to be baptized. The examining missionary, the Rev. E. D. Thomas,
   was convinced that the old man was keeping back something from
   him, and was clinging to some form of his old belief. It proved
   to be a charm which he had purchased years before from a very
   great medicine-man. After a long talk he was persuaded to give
   it up. It was a small, round tin box wrapt in pieces of dirty
   calico and sealed with grease and clay. Inside were half a dozen
   little pieces of stone, each wrapt in brown paper and embedded
   in down. (Text.)

    (2714)


                             RESERVE POWER

   No life can be vigorous if it is not kept fresh, responsive,
   by great physical and mental reserves. As hibernating animals,
   like the bear, in cold climates sustain life through the
   winter wholly upon the reserve fat and nutriment stored up in
   the tissues, so patients who have splendid physical reserves
   and resisting power are carried through severe sicknesses and
   sustained through severe illnesses by this reserve surplus,
   stored-up vital power, while those who lack it, those who have
   dissipated it in abnormal living and excesses, often lose their
   lives, even in much less severe illnesses.

   Great business men accomplish marvels with their reserves.
   Many of them work but a few hours a day, but they have such
   tremendous physical reserves and so much stored-up mental
   energy that they are able to accomplish wonders in a short
   time, because of their ability to work with great intensity and
   powerful concentration.

   People who keep their physical and mental surplus drawn down
   very low by working a great many hours and almost never taking
   vacations, who do not fill their reserve reservoir by frequent
   vacations and by a lot of recreation and play, do not work with
   anything like the freshness and mental vigor of those who work
   less hours and constantly accumulate great reserve power.

   There comes into every life worth while a time when success will
   turn upon the reserve power. It is then a question of how long
   your stored-up energy will enable you to hold out. There will
   often arise emergencies when your success will depend upon how
   much fight there is in you.--Denver _Republican_.

    (2715)


   =Reserved Merit=--See BOOKS AND WORTH.


                              RESIGNATION

This note of resignation is written by F. C. Browning:

                I can not feel
    That all is well when darkening clouds conceal
                The shining sun;
                But then, I know
    God lives and loves; and say, since it is so,
                Thy will be done.

                I do not see
    Why God should e’en permit some things to be,
                When He is love.
                But I can see
    Tho often dimly through the mystery,
                His hand above!

                I do not know
    Where falls the seed that I have tried to sow
                With greatest care,
                But I shall know
    The meaning of each waiting hour below,
                Sometime, somewhere!

                I do not look
    Upon the present, nor in nature’s book,
                To read my fate;
                But I do look
    For promised blessings in God’s holy Book,
                And I can wait. (Text.)

    (2716)

       *       *       *       *       *

Paul Laurence Dunbar, the negro poet, occupied a unique position in the
literary world. W. D. Howells called him the only man of pure African
blood and of American civilization to feel the negro life esthetically
and express it lyrically. While he was dying of consumption, he
contributed to _Lippincott’s_ this verse-sermon of resignation:

    Because I had loved so deeply,
      Because I had loved so long,
    God in his great compassion
      Gave me the gift of song.
    Because I had loved so vainly
      And sung with such faltering breath,
    The Master in infinite mercy
      Offers the boon of death. (Text.)

    (2717)


                              RESISTANCE

   Sit upon the shore close to the water’s edge, and let the sand
   teach you how to resist. It runs out underneath the water, and
   just lies there; and when the wave hurls its tons upon it, the
   sand gives way, but makes the water move it. When the water
   rushes furiously landward, the sand goes with it, but not quite
   so fast; and when the wave retreats, the sand runs back, but
   not quite so far. It always stands close to its enemy, and a
   little in front of him, never lets him strike from a distance,
   and never allows him to make any permanent mark. It never runs
   away, and never melts, and it always separates itself from its
   antagonist and lies ready for another attack. Always prepared
   for a blow, it never gives one.--JAMES M. STIFLER, “The
   Fighting Saint.”

    (2718)

       *       *       *       *       *

The modern treatment of moral germs should be similar to that used in
modern surgery:

   The new era, which is to succeed the present or “pathologic”
   era in surgery, is the “physiologic,” and in it we are to take
   less care about the entrance of possible germs into our surgical
   wounds and more about keeping the patient in such condition that
   he can resist them if they do get in.--_Literary Digest._

    (2719)

       *       *       *       *       *

   It is said that Napoleon once ordered a coat of mail. When the
   artizan completed and delivered it, the emperor ordered him to
   put it on himself. Then Napoleon, taking a pistol, fired shot
   after shot at the man in armor. It stood this severe test, and
   was accepted.

    (2720)


                       RESISTANCE AS A LEVERAGE

   I know not how the stork, “leaning upon the sirocco,” makes a
   leverage of the opposing element for her swift flight. I leave
   the naturalist to explain that. But I do know that the sirocco
   is a challenge to her unerring instinct and strength of wing.
   God manipulates the wind. The stork manipulates her wings. And
   the working of the combination results advantageously to the
   stork. She does not lean upon the sirocco wind as you would lean
   upon a couch. That would result in a fall and the bird would be
   dashed in pieces. The leaning is accompanied by action. While
   the buoyancy of the air bears her up, the balancing of the wings
   bears her on. That air-cushion is no “downy bed of ease.” It is
   a thing to be encountered and overcome. She makes the adversary
   contribute to her progress. The thing from which men shrink is
   the thing the bird dares.--C. J. GREENWOOD.

    (2721)


   =Resistance by Softness=--See SUBSTANCES, PENETRATING.


                             RESOLUTENESS

   The famous antarctic explorer, Sir Ernest Shackelton, has
   astonished his friends by his persistency of purpose. He was
   long ill during the progress of the “discovery” expedition. His
   lungs bled for months, but his indomitable purpose prevailed.
   He struggled heroically against a malady that threatened his
   life hour by hour. Before he set out he had looked at the map
   and said at a banquet, “Thanks, here’s to our success. I must
   not touch wine again until I return. I think we shall do it; at
   least we will try.” And he reached within ninety-seven miles of
   the South Pole, and returned to England sound and well.

    (2722)


                              RESOLUTION

Robert Louis Stevenson, in “Virginibus Puerisque,” writes an account of
a sea-fight in which he relates this:

   Duncan, lying off the _Texel_ with his own flagship, the
   _Venerable_, and only one other vessel, heard that the
   whole Dutch fleet was putting to sea. He told Captain Hotham to
   anchor alongside of him in the narrowest part of the channel and
   fight his vessel till she sank. “I have taken the depth of the
   water,” added he, “and when the _Venerable_ goes down, my
   flag will still fly.” (Text.)

    (2723)

   See CONVICTIONS, STRONG.


                           RESOLUTIONS, GOOD

   When Admiral Farragut’s son was ten years old the father said
   in his hearing that when he was old enough to make a contract
   and keep it, he had a bargain to offer him. The son rose up
   and asked the father what the contract was. The admiral said,
   “The proposal I intend to make is this: If you will not smoke
   or chew tobacco, drink intoxicating or strong wines, till you
   are twenty-one years of age, I will then give you one thousand
   dollars.” “I am old enough to make that bargain now,” said young
   Farragut. “I will accept the offer.” The bargain was closed, and
   when young Farragut was twenty-one the cash was handed over to
   him. A smoking boy can save a thousand dollars in a few years in
   the same way, besides saving physical energy and moral power.

    (2724)


                            RESOURCEFULNESS

“Where there is a will there is a way.”

   “According to a Pittsburg telephone manager,” says
   _Telephony_, “the telephone was put to a novel and unusual
   use in Washington County recently, enabling two boys, sons
   of farmers, to hold their positions in their classes in the
   public schools from which they will graduate in another year.
   Incidentally, the patience and long-suffering of the country
   school-teacher was put to an admirable test. Smallpox broke out
   in the neighborhood in question, and the two scholars were among
   the early victims. The home was quarantined, and there was every
   indication that the instruction which they had been receiving
   would be cut off for an indefinite period. But the teacher was
   resourceful and willing. He called up the stricken home one
   evening and proposed that the boys study their lessons as usual,
   and he would hear them over the telephone. The idea was eagerly
   received. Each evening they took down the receiver, and the
   teacher, located several farms away, heard them recite. Neither
   suffered to an appreciable degree through their absence from
   school, and their chances for graduation are just as bright as
   before the disease entered their home.” (Text.)

    (2725)

   See MEDICAL MISSIONS.


   =Resources, American=--See WASTE.


                         RESOURCES, EXHAUSTED

No life is self-sustained. For the individual and the nation, isolation
means death. If the resources by which life is sustained were not
furnished by others we should soon be at the end of our career.

   Charles Francis Adams, the historian and publicist, of Boston,
   Mass., in his address at Lexington, Va., on January 19, 1907,
   at the centennial celebration of General Lee’s birth, told the
   throng of Southerners, there in the shadow of Lee’s old home,
   that the Confederacy was beaten in the markets of the world,
   that the economic laws held it in an iron grip, that if 100,000
   men could have been sent to reenforce Lee, in the last days of
   the war, his condition would have been worse than before, as
   even their meager food-supply would only the sooner have been
   exhausted. With the South depleted of food by the four years’ of
   conflict, with the markets of the world closed to her, and no
   source of subsistence open to her armies, valor and devotion
   could count for only little.

   This consideration enters largely into England’s determination
   to keep her navy stronger than those of any other two powers. So
   much of her food-supply comes from abroad that she must maintain
   control of the ocean routes of trade.

    (2726)


                           RESOURCES, GOD’S

   Disposed somewhat to gloomy thoughts, especially at such times
   as her husband was maligned or persecuted by his enemies,
   Luther’s wife was on one occasion given a lesson by the great
   reformer in this wise: “Indeed, you torment yourself as if God
   were not Almighty and could not produce new Doctor Martins by
   the score if the old doctor should happen to drown himself in
   the Saal.”

    (2727)


   =Resources, Inner=--See WATER OF LIFE.


                     RESOURCES, MAKING THE BEST OF

   In the Tate Gallery in London there is a picture entitled
   “Hope.” Seated on a globe representing the earth is a woman
   blindfolded. The water which encloses the globe reaches to
   her feet. In her hands is a lyre with all the strings broken
   excepting one. She does not mend the broken chords, she does not
   wring her hands in helpless remorse over opportunities that are
   gone forever, but continues playing on the single string that is
   left unbroken.

It is the part of a brave man to do his best with what material is
still at his disposal, instead of wasting time in vainly regretting
what might have been. (Text.)

    (2728)


                           RESOURCES, SMALL

   A general who rose from the ranks in our army told me, not
   boastingly, that all he inherited from his father, in Vermont,
   was a pair of second-hand trousers, a sealskin cap, and a
   tendency to rheumatism. The Spartans gave their cooks only
   vinegar and salt and commanded them to look for the rest of
   their sauce in the meats they were to serve.--JAMES T.
   FIELDS.

    (2729)


                          RESPECT FOR TEACHER

   In Morley’s “Gladstone” there is a passage from the pen of the
   great premier, telling how, years after his Eton career, he sat
   down to a dinner in honor of the severe old head-master who had
   flogged every boy in the school, most of them many times. They
   had all hated him, they said. But when he rose to speak at that
   dinner, such a storm of applause never greeted a triumphant
   parliamentarian; and tears of affection actually overflowed all
   eyes.--BURRIS A. JENKINS, “Proceedings of the Religious
   Education Association,” 1904.

    (2730)


   =Respect for the Dead=--See SYMPATHY BY PLEASURE-GOERS.


                        RESPECT, NO, OF PERSONS

When King George the V was in the navy, he associated on terms of
perfect equality with his messmates, among whom he was known. As an
illustration of the indifference of his messmates to his royal birth,
and of the spirit of equality with which he was treated by them while
at sea, an incident may be related.

   One night he declined to turn out, as he should have done, to go
   on watch. His fellow middy, whom he was designated to relieve,
   and who wanted to turn in, endeavored to arouse the prince. The
   latter, on receiving two or three shakings, opened his eyes,
   swore picturesquely, but refused to turn out. He hit the man who
   had called him one blow on the eye and went to sleep again.

   The young fellow made no response, but returned to his post,
   resumed his watch, and thus did duty for the prince. Now, if
   there is one offense that is heinous, according to midshipman
   ethics, it is the shirking of a watch.

   On the following day, the lad who had done double duty,
   reported the case to his comrades. It was immediately decided
   to hold a drumhead court-martial in the gun-room. Prince George
   was brought before it, found guilty by unanimous count, and
   sentenced to be spanked by the middy who had done his work.

   The royal culprit was seized by four of the seniors and held
   face downward, while the middy with the disfigured eye, his
   sleeves rolled up to his elbows, carried out the sentence of the
   gun-room court. When the prince was released he was furious with
   rage and mortification, and threatened all sorts of things. But
   a few hours after he thought better of it, came to his messmate
   who had spanked him, and apologized for the blow he had given
   him, as well as for making him do double duty.

    (2731)


                        RESPONDING TO THE CALL

   I went a few weeks ago out to Bellefonte, Pennsylvania, to
   attend the dedication of the gymnasium there built in memory
   of Hugh McAllister Beaver; and as I came away, his father gave
   me the history of his regiment in the Civil War, the 148th
   Pennsylvania Volunteers. One of the first chapters of all is
   entitled “The Sister’s Story.” It is the story of how some of
   the lads of the regiment came to be enrolled. It was in the
   year of 1862. President Lincoln had issued a call for 300,000
   men and then a call for 300,000 more, and the War Department
   had drawn up provisions for a draft in case the men were not
   voluntarily offered; and this one county in Pennsylvania did not
   wish to stand under the ignominy of a draft, but desired that
   the men who were to go from that county should offer themselves
   freely in response to that call. This sister tells of how the
   appeal came to the little village in which she and her brother
   lived, in Center County, Pennsylvania. There was a small country
   academy there, and the summer vacation was just over, and the
   boys and girls had come back from the farms for the first day of
   the academy year again. She said that she came walking up the
   village street with a friend of hers, another little child, and
   as they came up the pathway through the yard of the school, arm
   in arm, with a little bunch of flowers held in both their hands
   and their heads bowed down very close together, as little girls
   would talk with one another confidentially, they were suddenly
   imprest with the silence of the school-yard. Instead of the
   noise of play and the chatter of an opening day at school, all
   the boys and the little girls were sitting quietly on the school
   stoop, and when they came they asked the older boys what the
   trouble was. Was there any specially dark tidings from the war?
   And they said: “No, it was not that;” but Professor Patterson
   had decided to enlist and he wanted to know how many of the
   boys of the school would go with him, and a meeting was to be
   held in the village church that evening, in which they were all
   to be given an opportunity to say what they would do. She said
   that at once she left her little companion and sought out her
   brother, and she said to him, “Harry, are you going to enlist?”
   and he said, “Yes, he thought he would.” “Well, but,” the mother
   argued after they reached home, “you are only sixteen years old;
   you can not enlist without father’s allowing you to go, and you
   know how we have all built on you, on your brightness, and are
   making sacrifices at home in order that you might go to college.
   You must not go away now to the war.” He insisted that when the
   opportunity came he was afraid he would have to respond. And the
   sister tells how that night, in the little village church, when
   Mr. McAllister, of Bellefonte, made his appeal for volunteers
   and had finished, the principal of the academy rose with a long
   paper in his hand; and her girlish heart almost stopt beating
   when she realized what it was that he was going to do, and then
   when he had made his careful, simple statement as to the purpose
   that led him and the motives that constrained him, he said he
   was going to call the school roll, and every boy who wanted to
   could respond “Ready” to his name; and in a silence like the
   silence of death he began at the top of the line: “Andrews,”
   “Ready”; “Baker,” “Ready”; and when he came down to K the
   little girl said her breath just absolutely stopt, and when the
   name Keller was called, she heard a clear, boyish voice answer
   without a tremor, “Ready” to his name.--R. E. SPEER,
   “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (2732)


   =Response=--See CHARACTER.


   =Response of God=--See FATHERHOOD.


                            RESPONSIBILITY

    God has crammed both thy palms with living seed;
      Let not a miser’s clutch keep both hands tight,
    But scatter on the desert’s barren need,
      That fragrant blossoms may reward God’s sight.

    God has dipt deep thy cup into his spring,
      Which drippeth over, it is so well filled;
    Lend it to some parched life, and let it bring
      Laughter and song to voices drought has stilled.

    God gave to thee His only well-loved Christ,
      Whose steps have smoothed the road that leads thee home;
    Tell those whose road is rough, whose way is missed,
      That He has called all weary men to come.

    So shall thy giving set for thee God’s smile,
      And thine own soul drink deep draughts of His love;
    Earth’s shadows shall grow bright as heaven, the while
      A web of glory round thy life is wove.

    --_The British Congregationalist._

    (2733)

       *       *       *       *       *

Dignity sometimes goes down before a solemn responsibility. Susannah
Wesley started some prayer-meetings in her house. When her husband, the
rector, heard of it, it seemed to him to infringe on the dignity of the
Anglican order and he wrote to her in disapproval of the meetings. Her
reply is quoted in part by Rev. W. H. Fitchett:

   If you do, after all, think fit to dissolve this assembly, do
   not tell me that you desire me to do this; for that will not
   satisfy my conscience. But send me your positive command, in
   such full and express terms as may absolve me from guilt and
   punishment for neglecting this opportunity for doing good when
   you and I shall appear before the great and awful tribunal of
   our Lord Jesus Christ.

   That terrible sentence was too much for the little rector,
   and the meetings were continued until he returned from
   London.--“Wesley and His Century.”

    (2734)

       *       *       *       *       *

Men are often exalted in their best moral attitudes by being entrusted
with great responsibilities. Thus Lamar Fontaine writes:

   I received from Major Livingston Mimms, the chief quartermaster
   of the Department of Mississippi and East Louisiana, and also
   of Johnston’s army, a _carte blanche_ on the Confederate
   treasurer, in these words:

   “The Confederate States treasurer will honor any draft presented
   to him signed by Lamar Fontaine.”

   As I realized the immensity of the trust that this paper
   conveyed to me, and imposed upon my integrity, I trembled and
   could hardly sit on my steed, but there arose in my heart
   a something, a feeling beyond my powers to describe. I was
   transported to a higher, better plane than I had ever before
   trod, and a determination that all the gold of earth could not
   have purchased.--“My Life and My Lectures.”

    (2735)

       *       *       *       *       *

We may often accomplish more by putting responsibility on others rather
than exercising it ourselves:

   Daniel O’Connell had to defend a prisoner for a capital crime,
   and the defense was said by the attorney to be hopeless.
   Sergeant Lefroy happened to be acting for the judge, who
   had been suddenly indisposed, and being then young and his
   character known to O’Connell, the latter purposely put several
   inadmissible questions to the witness, which, of course,
   were objected to by the opposite counsel. The sergeant at
   last rather peremptorily stopt further questions of the same
   kind. O’Connell then, with great warmth, said, “As you refuse
   me permission to defend my client, I leave his fate in your
   hands--his blood be on your head if he be condemned.” He left
   the court at once with majestic stride, in a huff, and paced
   up and down outside the court for half an hour. At the end of
   that time his attorney rushed out of court, exclaiming, “He’s
   acquitted! he’s acquitted!” This stratagem was successful, and
   O’Connell with complacency told his friends that he had intended
   to throw the responsibility of the conviction on the judge.
   (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (2736)

       *       *       *       *       *

   One of the particulars in which we are drawn away from our
   traditions is in respect to the make-up and government of
   society, and it is in that respect we should retrace our steps
   and preserve our traditions; because we are suffering ourselves
   to drift away from the old standards, and we say, with a shrug
   of the shoulders, that we are not responsible for it; that we
   have not changed the age, tho the age has changed us. We feel
   very much as the Scotchman did who entered the fish-market. His
   dog, being inquisitive, investigated a basket of lobsters, and
   while he was nosing about incautiously one of the lobsters got
   hold of his tail, whereupon he went down the street with the
   lobster as a pendant. Says the man, “Whustle to your dog, mon.”
   “Nay, nay, mon,” quoth the Scotchman, “you whustle for your
   lobster.”--WOODROW WILSON.

    (2737)

   See DESIRES, INORDINATE.


                    RESPONSIBILITY AFFECTS JUDGMENT

Judge Collamore, who for many years was a distinguished United States
Senator from Vermont, used to illustrate his troubles by this story:

   He was sitting on the porch of his law office during a recess of
   Congress, when a farmer drove by and said, “Judge, my conscience
   troubles me so I can not sleep, about keeping four millions of
   fellow human beings with the same souls and the same Creator as
   ourselves in slavery. With all this wealth, I am sure that we,
   as a nation and as a people individually, will be curst unless
   slavery is abolished. Now, it is hardly fair to destroy the
   property of the South, who are not directly responsible, and so
   I think we ought to all bear our share and buy them out.”

   Senator Collamore replied: “Well, in part I think you are right.
   Now, let’s see practically how it works out. The estimated
   price is four thousand millions of dollars. It would have to be
   raised by a direct tax proportioned among the States. Vermont’s
   share would be so many millions. This county, so many hundreds
   of thousands, this town so many tens of thousands.” Sitting
   in the same place the next afternoon, and greeting friends as
   they passed to and from the market, the old Puritan farmer
   reappeared. Reining up his horses, he shouted: “Judge, I have
   been thinking over that question. Crops are poor, taxes are
   high; I don’t think we need bother just at present about them
   infernal niggers.”

    (2738)


                         RESPONSIBILITY EVADED

   When the Massachusetts Sixth was there in Baltimore and being
   mobbed, and stood for a long time perfectly patient till their
   officers commanded them to fire, a long Yankee--who had stood
   watching this crowd and saw that the poor ruffians round
   about were merely the tools of the respectable scoundrels
   standing away across the square on boxes and barrels--stept
   out from the ranks and drew his bead and sent a bullet through
   one scoundrel’s heart, and knocked him like a pigeon off a
   branch. In Baltimore I heard the other side of that story,
   when a clergyman of that city told me, “We lost a good deal
   out of our church that day.” “Ah?” said I, “how was that?”
   “Well, one of the class-leaders of our church was down there
   looking-on. He stood on a box on the other side of the square;
   he was not among the crowd at all, but a stray bullet came
   across the end of the square and shot him!” He was one of those
   broadclothed scoundrels, with a gold-headed cane, surrounding
   those poor fellows, and ought to have been shot.--HENRY WARD
   BEECHER.

    (2739)


   =Responsibility for Others=--See MUTUALISM.


                      RESPONSIBILITY OF GREATNESS

   Does some Napoleon “wade through slaughter to a throne, and
   shut the gates of mercy on mankind,” and break the hearts of a
   million peasant women, and handicap the careers of ten millions
   of orphan children? Recently when I used Napoleon in an address
   as an illustration of unbridled and selfish ambition, and spoke
   of him as a man raised up to correct the abuses of the French
   Revolution, who ought to have imitated Washington and Jefferson,
   and as a man of patriotism all compact concluded his career
   without a mixture of meanness and sin, a score of people wrote
   protesting against judging Napoleon by the ordinary standards
   of morality. Does Goethe forget the law of marriage? For thirty
   years cast the reins loose on the neck of passion? Use a score
   of women as material and dynamic for literary work? It is said
   Goethe was too great to be held down to the ordinary petty
   rules that control the limited career of peasant souls. Does
   Byron forget the law of sobriety, and fling himself into wild
   excesses and lift the cup of flame to his lips? It is said that
   Byron is a child of genius, quite beyond the pale of convention.
   Does some Crœsus with the money-making gift get his hands on
   the reins of power use his secret knowledge to secure exemption
   from taxes and enjoy special privileges, freeing himself from
   economic duties that his competitors must bear, not only for
   themselves alone but for him? The excuse is that the moral laws
   that hold for those that buy and sell a few pounds of groceries
   are to be laid on the table and abrogated in the presence of the
   merchant princes owning uncounted millions.

   The biographies of great men are filled with excuses for great
   generals who have been selfish, of poets who have been wild
   and lawless, apologies for statesmen who have been drunken,
   merchants who have been false. And the whole world has suffered
   through this misconception. As men go toward greatness they go
   toward responsibility and obligation. It is true that the great
   man with his gifts must not be judged by ordinary rules--he must
   be held to extraordinary rules and standards doubly severe.
   Selfishness can be pardoned in a peasant soldier, not in a great
   general.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2740)


   =Responsibility of Privilege=--See PRIVILEGE INVOLVES
      RESPONSIBILITY.


   =Responsibility, Personal=--See PLACE, FILLING ONE’S.


   =Responsibility, Sense of=--See PERSONAL PREACHING.


                      RESPONSIBILITY, UNDESIRABLE

The following Lincoln anecdote is quoted in the _Literary Digest_:

   One evening, just before the close of the Civil War, he had
   some visitors at the White House, among them some Senators and
   members of Congress. One of the guests asked the President what
   he would do with Jefferson Davis if he were captured. Crossing
   his legs and looking at his friends with that peculiar twinkle
   in his eyes, he said: “Gentlemen, that reminds me of an incident
   of my home in Illinois. One morning, when I was on my way to the
   office, I saw a small boy standing on a street corner crying as
   if his heart would break. I asked him what was the cause of his
   sorrow. He said, ‘Mister, don’t you see that coon?’ pointing to
   a poor little beast that he had tied to a string. ‘Well, that
   animal has given me a heap of trouble all the way along, and now
   he has nearly gnawed the string in two. I wish to goodness he
   would gnaw it in two and get away, so I could go home and tell
   my folks he had escaped from me.’”

    (2741)


                            RESPONSIVENESS

   One of the wonders of China is the Bell Temple near Peking. Its
   great curiosity is the great bell. It was cast five centuries
   ago and weighs fifty-three and a half tons--the largest hanging
   bell in the world. It is covered all over with extracts from
   the Buddhist canon, in Chinese characters. It is rung by means
   of a huge hanging timber swung against it, calling forth tones
   the sweetest, most melodious, and resounding, as if echoing the
   chords of eternity. But the striking thing about this great
   bell is that its tones vary in proportion to the quality of the
   sounding-board receiving them.

Does not a ringing truth or a loving deed depend upon the response it
gets?

    (2742)

       *       *       *       *       *

   We are told that if one were to suspend a bell weighing a
   hundred tons, and a little child were to stand beneath it and
   play upon a flute, the vibrations of the air produced by the
   playing of the flute would cause the bell to tremble like a
   living thing and resound through all its mass.

As bell responds to flute, so the heart of the Christian responds to
the music of the message that issues from that manger cradle of the
Babe of Bethlehem. The time will come when the music from that manger
shall melt into itself all earth’s Babel sounds and fill the world with
harmony.--J. D. FREEMAN, “Concerning the Christ.”

    (2743)


                                 REST

   There is no music in a rest, but there is the making of music
   in it. In our whole life-melody the music is broken off here
   and there by “rests,” and we foolishly think that we have come
   to the end of the time. God sends a time of forced leisure,
   sickness, disappointed plans, frustrated efforts, and makes a
   sudden pause in the choral hymn of our lives, and we lament
   that our voices must be silent, and our part missing in the
   music which ever goes up to the ear of the Creator. How does the
   musician read the rest? See him beat the time with unvarying
   counts and catch up the next note true and steady, as if no
   breaking place had come between. Not without design does God
   write the music of our lives. Be it ours to learn the time, and
   not be dismayed at the “rests.” They are not to be slurred over,
   not to be omitted, not to destroy the melody, not to change the
   keynote. If we look up, God Himself will beat the time for us.
   With the eye on Him, we shall strike the next note full and
   clear. If we say sadly to ourselves, “There is no music in a
   rest,” let us not forget “there is making of music in it.”

    (2744)


   =Rest-day, Weekly=--See SUNDAY WORK DISCONTINUED.


                              RESTITUTION

   One of the strangest wills ever made was that of George Brown,
   Jr., the noted gambler and race-horse man, which was filed in
   the Probate Court at Kansas City, Mo., recently. “It is my
   desire, as far as possible,” a clause of the will reads, “to
   repay every person, man, woman and child, any money which I may
   have won from him by gambling during my lifetime; and I direct
   my executor to make efforts to learn their names and reimburse
   them to the full amount, with interest from the day the money
   was won.” This penitent gambler has set an example here which it
   would be well for those to follow who make larger pretensions to
   integrity. There are some wrongs to fellow men which never can
   be repaired, but there are others that can and should be made
   right. (Text.)

    (2745)

       *       *       *       *       *

   General John Gibson, of Ohio, in old age was asked what he was
   doing. Said he: “Well, I am a very old man, and I suppose that
   most people would think I am not doing much of anything. But,
   to tell the truth, I am trying to hunt up every person whom
   I have wronged in life, and if I can find them, to ask their
   forgiveness and make atonement for all the wrongs I have done.
   And I am trying to be as good and kind and loving to all my
   neighbors as I know how. And I am becoming one of the biggest
   beggars for mercy at the Bank of Grace you ever saw. In short,
   during the little time that is left me on earth, I am fixing up
   for a mighty big funeral.”

It is no small duty to make amends for all the wrong-doing of a life
whether long or short.

    (2746)


                              RESTORATION

The following illustration is from a sermon by Dr. Henry Van Dyke;

   The portrait of Dante is painted on the walls of the Bargello,
   at Florence. For many years it was supposed that the picture had
   utterly perished. Men had heard of it but no one living had ever
   seen it. But presently came an artist who was determined to find
   it again. He went into the place where tradition said that it
   had been painted. The room was used as a storeroom for lumber
   and straw. The walls were covered with dirty whitewash. He had
   the heaps of rubbish carried away, and patiently and carefully
   removed the whitewash from the wall. Lines and colors long
   hidden began to appear, and at last the grave, lofty, noble face
   of the great poet looked out again upon the world of light.

   “That was wonderful,” you say; “that was beautiful!” Not half so
   wonderful as the work which Christ came to do in the heart of
   man--to restore the forgotten image of God and bring the divine
   image to the light.

    (2747)

       *       *       *       *       *

The blood of Christ is a symbol under which is often described the
vitality of divine life restoring the image of God in the soul of the
sinner. An illustration from nature of this process may be found in
this extract:

   A valuable discovery has been made whereby the faded ink on
   old parchments may be so restored as to render the writing
   perfectly legible. The process consists in moistening the paper
   with water, and then passing over the lines in writing a brush
   which has been wet in a solution of ammonia. The writing will
   immediately appear quite dark in color; and this color, in the
   case of parchment, it will preserve. On paper, however, the
   color gradually fades again; but it may be restored at pleasure
   by the application of the sulfid. The explanation of the action
   of this substance is very simple. The iron which enters into the
   composition of the ink is transformed by the reaction into black
   sulfid.--_Electrical Review._

    (2748)

   See NATURE’S RECUPERATIVE POWERS.


                         RESTORATION IN NATURE

“It is a libel on Nature,” says Dr. Ambrose Shepherd, “to declare that
it never forgives. On the contrary, Nature is ever seeking to repair
injuries and to forgive errors.”

   Every surgeon knows that but for nature’s restoring tendencies
   his skill would be applied in vain. Illustrative demonstrations
   of these beneficent proclivities multiply daily. When an
   accident happens in which a limb is broken, what follows? With
   surgical assistance the fracture is set and the limb is bound up
   and left to rest for a time. Nature instantly, delicately, but
   powerfully and unerringly begins the beautiful and wonderful
   process of reparation. The cementing of the broken parts is
   mysteriously inaugurated. But, of course, much depends on a
   man’s previous life. If he has been a wise man, nature works
   rapidly; if a fool, more slowly; but nature always seeks to work
   in the direction of restoration. (Text.)

    (2749)


                         RESTORING GOD’S IMAGE

   Not long ago, a lady living in Hartford, Conn., bought at an
   auction in New York a painting begrimed with smoke and dirt. Her
   friends laughed at her for buying such a “worthless daub,” but
   she took the picture to a restorer of old paintings, who, after
   hours of patient labor in removing the dirt, brought to view a
   beautiful sixteenth century painting, representing a mother with
   her children. The painting is of almost priceless value. The
   penny they brought the Master was coined from base metal, but
   the image on it gave it value.

We are made in the image of God, and that makes us precious in His
sight. The skin may be black or yellow, or brown or white--it matters
not. Sin may have obscured the image, but we are Christ’s coins; He
paid a great price for us, and seeks in every possible way to restore
in us the image of Himself. (Text.)

    (2750)


                               RESTRAINT

A traveler among the Alpine heights says:

   We were at the foot of Mt. Blanc, in the village of Chamouni. A
   sad thing had happened the day before we reached the village.
   A young physician, of Boston, had determined to reach the
   heights of Mt. Blanc. He accomplished the feat, and the little
   village was illuminated in his honor; the flag was flying from
   the little hut on the mountain side--that all who have visited
   Chamouni well remember--that told of his victory. But after he
   had ascended and descended in safety, as far as the hut, he
   wanted then to be relieved from his guide; he wanted to be free
   from the rope, and he insisted that he could go alone. The guide
   remonstrated with him, told him it was not safe, but he was
   tired of the rope and declared he would be free of it. The guide
   had to yield. The young man had only gone a short distance when
   his foot slipt on the ice and he could not stop himself from
   sliding down the inclined icy steeps. The rope was gone so the
   guide could not hold him or pull him back. And out on a shelving
   piece of ice lay the dead body of the young physician, as it
   was pointed out to me. The bells had been rung, the village
   illuminated in honor of his success, but, alas, in a fatal
   moment he refused to be guided; he was tired of the rope.

The restraints of life are usually salutary. Those of the gospel always
so. (Text.)

    (2751)

       *       *       *       *       *

Wild forces may be sublime and majestic, but it is when force submits
to authority that it becomes power for usefulness, for service, for
benefit.

   Venice lies in a lovely and gentle series of lagoons. The sea,
   which is terrible in storms when it is uncircumscribed, has here
   built barriers of sand in which it becomes self-restrained. In
   the lagoons the Adriatic is tamed to rest, and even in furious
   weather it remains tranquil. It has lost its recklessness
   and terror but has gained in beauty, reflecting everything
   in pictures of incomparable loveliness. The sea at Venice by
   sacrifice enters into service and ministers both utility and
   charm to humanity. Over the quiet lagoons are built scores
   of bridges, and along their borders stand lines of stately
   edifices, and here stands in its matchless beauty a city unique
   in the world. (Text.)

    (2752)

   See PROHIBITION.


                          RESULTS AS EVIDENCE

   I get into what were once the Black Lands, of Arizona, known
   as the great American desert, and I find it blossoming with
   fertility, and I say, “How is this?” The reply is that
   irrigation has been established. How can you prove it? Look
   about you. It is interesting to know what engineers built the
   reservoirs on the mountain tops and how much they cost, but
   the evidence that they have been built are the rills of water
   running through the land and the crops growing there. Now I
   look upon the world that nineteen centuries ago was desert and
   I see flowers of hope and fruits of love and visions of faith
   springing up. That is the evidence.--LYMAN ABBOTT.

    (2753)


                        RESULTS ENLARGED BY GOD

   When David Livingstone went to Africa there was a Scottish woman
   by the name of Mrs. MacRobert who was quite advanced in years.
   As she was unable to go herself she gave Livingstone thirty
   pounds which she had saved and said, “When you go into Africa I
   want you to spare yourself unnecessary exposure and bodily toil
   by hiring some competent servant, who shall go with you wherever
   you go and share your sacrifices and your exposures.” With that
   money he hired the faithful Sebalwe, who saved him from death
   by a lion, and this added those last thirty years of wonderful
   service to the world.

    (2754)


   =Results not Processes=--See SILENT PROCESSES.


                         RESULTS OF GOOD DEEDS

Charles Mackay writes of the good that is done by apparently
insignificant services:

    A little stream had lost its way
      Amid the grass and fern;
    A passing stranger scooped a well,
      Where weary men might turn;
    He walled it in and hung with care
      A ladle at the brink;
    He thought not of the deed he did,
      But judged that all might drink.
    He passed again, and lo! the well,
      By summer never dried,
    Had cooled ten thousand parching tongues,
      And saved a life beside.

    A nameless man, amid a crowd
      That thronged the daily mart
    Let fall a word of hope and love,
      Unstudied from the heart;
    A whisper on the tumult thrown,
      A transitory breath--
    It raised a brother from the dust,
      It saved a soul from death.
    O germ! O fount! O word of love!
      O thought at random cast!
    Ye were but little at the first,
      But mighty at the last.

    (2755)


   =Results Unforeseen=--See ONE, WINNING.


                        RESULTS VERSUS DISPLAY

   It is not by the number of discourses that you can test the
   effect of the ministry of any preacher, but has it brought those
   who heard him nearer to the divine life, nearer to the life
   in God? Sir Astley Cooper, when in Paris once, met the chief
   surgeon in France, who told him about a difficult operation he
   had performed. He said: “I have performed this operation 160
   times; how often have you performed it?” Sir Astley replied:
   “I have performed it thirteen times.” “And how many of your
   operations were successful?” “Eleven of my cases have lived.”
   said Sir Astley; “how many of yours?” The great French surgeon
   replied: “All my 160 cases have died, but the operation was most
   brilliant.”

    (2756)


                             RESURRECTION

The following gives an idea of the strong faith of D. L. Moody; it is
the law of the resurrection in operation:

   “Some day,” he said, “you will read in the papers that D. L.
   Moody is dead. Don’t you believe a word of it. At that moment
   I shall be more alive than I am now. That which is born of the
   spirit will live forever.” (Text.)

    (2757)

   See JUDGMENT DAY.


                             RESUSCITATION

Lamar Fontaine describes his sensations when he was about to be buried
alive after being desperately wounded on the battle-field:

   Some time in the night I heard the approach of voices and the
   tramp of men. Soon I heard the sound of picks and spades and
   caught the gleam of lanterns, and knew a burial-party was on
   the field, and that surgeons, with their attendants, had come
   to pick up and care for the wounded. Again and again I tried
   to speak, but no sound came. Presently I felt the jar of the
   picks and spades as they dug a grave by my side, and then I felt
   a strong hand grasp my head and another my feet, and lift me
   clear of the ground. There was a sharp click, and then a loud
   buzzing sound in my ears, and my whole body was in an agony of
   pain. A fearful thirst tortured me. I spoke, and my friends let
   me drop suddenly to the ground. The jar awoke every faculty to
   life. I asked for water, and at once a strong light was flashed
   in my face, a rubber canteen applied to my lips, and I felt
   a life-giving stream of cold, refreshing water flow down my
   swollen throat, and seemingly into every part of my frame.--“My
   Life and My Lectures.”

    (2758)


                              RETALIATION

   During the South African War, when that country was under
   martial law, every letter which was sent home had to pass
   through the hands of the press censor.

   A private in the Yorkshire Volunteers had sent four or five
   letters home, telling his parents about the doings of the
   regiment, which portions had been obliterated by the censor, and
   were therefore unreadable on their arrival at the destination.

   He decided to get square with the censor, and at the foot of the
   next letter he wrote the following words:

   “Please look under the stamp.”

   “At the censor’s office the letter was opened and read as usual.
   The officer in charge spent some time in steaming the stamp
   from the envelop so that he could read the message which he was
   certain he would find there.

   At last his patience was rewarded; but his feelings can be
   better imagined than described when he read these words:

   “Was it hard to get off?”--_Tid-Bits._

    (2759)

       *       *       *       *       *

We never can tell when rudeness and ill-manners may return upon our own
heads:

   George Ade, in the early days of his career, before his
   “Fables in Slang” had brought him fame, says the New York
   _Tribune_, called one morning in Chicago upon a Sunday
   editor, on a mission from a theatrical manager.

   “I have brought you this manuscript,” he began, but the editor,
   looking up at the tall, timid youth, interrupted:

   “Just throw the manuscript in the waste-basket, please,” he
   said. “I’m very busy just now, and haven’t time to do it myself.”

   Mr. Ade obeyed calmly. He resumed:

   “I have come from the ---- Theater, and the manuscript I have
   just thrown in the waste-basket is your comic farce of ‘The
   Erring Son,’ which the manager asks me to return to you with
   thanks. He suggests that you sell it to an undertaker, to be
   read at funerals.”

   Then Mr. Ade smiled gently and withdrew.

    (2760)


                              RETARDATION

Many Christians converted years ago show no more progress than the
subject of this sketch:

   “There is a young man in England,” says _The Dietetic and
   Hygienic Gazette_, “who at the age of twenty-four is
   developing at the rate of only one-sixth of that of the average
   human being. At present he is learning his alphabet and can
   count up to ten only. During the last nineteen years he has
   eaten but three meals a week, has slept twenty-four hours and
   played twenty-four hours, without the slightest variation. In
   spite of his twenty-four years he looks no older than a boy of
   four or five and is only thirty-six inches in height. For the
   same period his development physically and mentally has been at
   only one-sixth the ordinary rate, while absolutely regular and
   perfect in every other way. At his birth this child weighed ten
   pounds and in no way differed from any other child. He grew and
   thrived in the usual way until he attained the age of five. Then
   his progress was suddenly and mysteriously arrested, and since
   then six years have been the same to him as one year to the
   normal person. He has attracted the attention of many medical
   and scientific men, more than one of whom has exprest the
   conviction that this remarkable man will live to be no less than
   three centuries old.” (Text.)

    (2761)


                               RETICENCE

There are times and circumstances in which one may well refuse to be
pumped of what he knows.

   A Scotch laddie was summoned to give evidence against his
   father. “Come, my wee mon, tell us what ye ken aboot this
   affair.” “Weel, ye ken Inverness Street?” “I do, laddie,” said
   his worship. “Weel, ye gang along and turn into the square.”
   “Yes, yes.” “Turn to the right up into High Street till ye come
   to a pump.” “I know the old pump well,” said his honor. “Weel,”
   added the laddie, “ye may gang and pump it, for ye’ll no pump
   me.”

    (2762)


                               RETORT, A

   President Taft was hissed by a number of women when he was
   courageous enough to confess at the convention of the National
   American Woman Suffrage Association that he was not altogether
   in favor of women having the right to vote. President Taft was
   welcoming the delegates to Washington, but told them frankly
   that he was not altogether in sympathy with the suffrage
   movement. He said he thought one of the dangers in granting
   suffrage to women is that women as a whole are not interested
   in it, and that the power of the ballot, so far as women
   are concerned, would be controlled “by the least desirable
   citizens.” When these words fell from the President’s lips
   the walls of the convention hall echoed a chorus of feminine
   hisses. It was no feeble demonstration of protest. The combined
   hisses sounded as if a valve on a steam-engine had broken,
   according to one correspondent. President Taft stood unmoved
   during the demonstration of hostilities, for the hisses lasted
   only a moment, and then smiling as he spoke he answered the
   unfavorable greeting with this retort: “Now, my dear ladies,
   you must show yourself capable of suffrage by exercising
   that degree of restraint which is necessary in the conduct
   of government affairs, by not hissing.” The women who had
   made the demonstration were duly rebuked. The suffrage cause
   was undoubtedly hurt by the demonstration, as the President,
   regardless of his personal views, is entitled to consideration
   and respectful attention.--_Wisconsin Farmer._

    (2763)


   =Retort Effecting a Change=--See ECCENTRICITY.


                           RETORT, PERSONAL

   Victor Hugo did not love the brilliant son of Alexander Dumas,
   and when the latter was a boy the poet was very fond of snubbing
   him. It is on record that one day young Dumas asked Victor
   Hugo why he did not allow his children to take walks and have
   talks with him. “It is,” answered the poet, “because Mme. Hugo
   is alarmed about your morals. She is afraid you will lead away
   the boys; in short, you pass for having violent passions.”
   “Monsieur,” said the young Dumas, looking the poet in the eye,
   “if one has no passions at twenty he is likely to have vices
   at forty.” A day or two afterward the elder Dumas, meeting
   with Hugo, said: “How do you like my son? Do you not think he
   is witty?” “Yes,” said Hugo, “but he makes very bad use of his
   wit.”--Philadelphia _Press_.

    (2764)


   =Retracing Steps=--See BARRIERS.


                          RETREAT DISCOURAGED

   The battle of the Cowpens, altho hardly more than a skirmish
   when tried by modern standards, was in its day, according to the
   British historian Stedman, “a very principal link in the chain
   of circumstances which led to the independence of America.” To
   draw up an inferior force for a pitched battle directly in front
   of a broad river has always seemed to the military critics very
   imprudent. But this very act showed the daring and the foresight
   of Morgan. When blamed he afterward answered: “I would not have
   had a swamp in view of my militia on any consideration; they
   would have made for it, and nothing could have detained them
   from it.... As to retreat, it was the very thing I wished to cut
   off all hope of. I would have thanked Tarleton had he surrounded
   me with his cavalry.” Braver and shrewder words never were
   spoken by a military commander.--THOMAS W. HIGGINSON.

    (2765)


                     RETRIBUTION IN THE INDIVIDUAL

   What is true of the mass is first true of the atom; what is
   true of the ocean is first true of the drop. It is easy to see
   the law of retribution when it is exemplified in the broad
   effects of national calamity, but not so easy to apprehend its
   action in the individual fortune. We stand in awe over the
   shattered greatness and buried splendor of Egypt, Babylon,
   Judea, Phoenicia, Greece; but the ruin that sin works in the
   individual destiny is just as certain, and infinitely more
   awful. If we could once see a soul in ruins, we should never
   speak again of Nineveh, Memphis, Jerusalem, Tyre, Athens.
   “Deceive not yourselves.” (Text.)--W. L. WATKINSON,
   “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (2766)


                        RETRIBUTION INEVITABLE

   With great injustice and cruelty the French drove out the
   Huguenots, but in expelling these sons of faith, genius,
   industry, virtue, the French fatally impoverished their national
   life, and they are suffering to-day from these missing elements
   which none may restore. It is impossible for a people to
   increase in material wealth and political consideration while
   its true grandeur, its greatness of soul, is gradually passing
   away. Very strange and subtle are the causes of the decay of
   nations, and little by little, quite unconsciously, does a
   people lose the great qualities which made it. Poets lose their
   fire, artists their imagination, merchants their enterprise,
   statesmen their sagacity, soldiers their heroism, the people
   their self-control; literature becomes commonplace, art
   lifeless, great men dwindle into mediocrities, good men perish
   from the land, and the glory of a nation departs, leaving only a
   shell, a shadow, a memory. Retribution may not come suddenly,
   but it will come.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured
   Sackcloth.”

    (2767)


   =Retribution, Just=--See RESPONSIBILITY EVADED.


                        RETRIBUTION, THE LAW OF

   For centuries did the kings and nobles of France oppress the
   peasantry. It is impossible for us to think adequately of the
   vast, hopeless wretchedness of the people from the cradle to the
   grave. When Louis XVI came to the throne it seemed incredible
   that the long-suffering people would ever avenge themselves
   upon the powerful classes by whom they were ground to the dust,
   and yet by a marvelous series of events the “wounded men”
   arose in awful wrath, burning palaces with fire and trampling
   greatness under foot. “Pierced through” were those hungry,
   hopeless millions; but the day of doom came, and every bleeding
   wretch arose invincible with torch and sword.--W. L.
   WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (2768)


                        RETRIEVED SITUATION, A

   When Senator Hanna was walking through his factory in Cleveland
   some years ago, says _The National Magazine_, on the
   lookout for new ideas, or anything which would aid the progress
   of business, he overheard a little red-headed lad remark:

   “Wish I had old Hanna’s money, and he was in the poorhouse.”

   The Senator returned to his office and rang to have the boy
   sent to him. The boy came to the office timidly, just a bit
   conscience-stricken, wondering if his remark had been overheard
   and ready for the penalty. As the lad twisted his hands and
   nervously stood on one foot before the gaze of those twinkling
   dark eyes fixt on him by the man at the desk, he felt the hand
   of Uncle Mark on his shoulder.

   “So you wish you had old Hanna’s money, and he was in the
   poorhouse, eh? Suppose your wish should be granted, what would
   you do?”

   “Why,” stammered the lad, “the first thing I would do, sir,
   would be to get you out of the poorhouse.”

   The Senator laughed and sent the boy back to his work. To-day he
   is one of the managers of a large factory, but he never tires of
   telling the story that held his first job.

    (2769)


   =Retrogression=--See DOWN GRADE, THE.


                              RETROSPECT

   We all know what distance does. Standing on the floor of a
   cathedral in St. Petersburg, the loud conversation of the
   multitudes surging in and out seems to roar in the ear. But
   standing in the tiny dome, three hundred feet above, all the
   harshness is strained out and the sounds become song. Those who
   dwell inland know how the trees strain out the roughness, and
   the surge and the roar of the waves turn to music, falling on
   the fluted tree-tops. Near at hand the frescoes in the cathedral
   dome are blotches of blue and red; from the floor beneath they
   melt into the most exquisite tints, and shaded lines proclaim
   the genius of an artist. For the architect planned that dome to
   be seen from afar, and God plans the events of childhood and
   youth to be surveyed from the summit of maturity.--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (2770)


   =Reunion=--See FUTURE REUNION.


   =Revealing Stolen Property=--See EXPOSURE.


   =Revelation=--See UTTERANCE.


   =Revenge=--See ANGER, FUTILE.


                        REVENGE, A CHRISTIAN’S

   A bed in the Bannu mission hospital in India is known as “The
   Christian’s Revenge.” It is supported by a sister of Captain
   Conolly, who was cruelly murdered by order of the Ameer of
   Bokhara after long incarceration and many tortures, because he
   refused to become a Mussulman. She endowed this bed twenty-one
   years after the captain’s death, when a full account of his
   sufferings, written by his own hand in prison, came unexpectedly
   to light, a little prayer-book containing the record coming into
   the hands of his relatives.

That bed is an object-lesson to the inmates and visitors of the
hospital, teaching the gentle and forgiving spirit that the gospel of
Jesus ever breathes and inculcates.

    (2771)


                         REVERENCE FOR PARENTS

   The family of Jonathan Edwards consisted of three sons and
   eight daughters. It is said that when Mr. Edwards and his wife
   entered the room the children rose and remained standing until
   father and mother were seated. (Text.)

    (2772)


                           REVERSED ATTITUDE

The moral health of some could be restored only by turning their
thoughts and inclinations upside down, as patients are treated
according to this description:

   In France, when a patient is under chloroform, on the slightest
   symptom appearing of failure of the heart, they turn him nearly
   upside down--that is, with his head downward and his heels
   in the air. This, they say, always restores him; and such is
   their faith in the efficacy of this method that the operating
   tables in the Paris hospitals are made so that in an instant
   they can be elevated with one end in the air, so as to bring
   the patient into a position resembling that of standing on the
   head.--_Scientific American._

    (2773)


   =Reversion of Nature=--See CIRCULATION IMPEDED.


                                REVIVAL

   In some neglected church-yards there are old inscriptions so
   moss-grown and weather-beaten that they can no longer be easily
   deciphered. So there are men who in early life were marked by
   high and noble principles, which the wear of the world has
   almost destroyed in them. They need a thorough regeneration to
   revive the old lines and ideals of duty and character.

    (2774)

       *       *       *       *       *

Like pneumatic tires, the Church needs to be “pumped up” by special
efforts from time to time. The same is true of the individual.

   Pneumatic tires, whether on a bicycle or an automobile, always
   become more or less deflated in the course of time, even when
   there is no puncture and the valves are perfectly tight. All
   cyclists and chauffeurs know that a tire needs pumping up, from
   time to time, to keep it hard and rigid. This is because the
   enclosed air constantly tends to escape through the envelop; the
   phenomenon, which is due to what chemists call osmose, is quite
   complex and is worth attention. (Text.)--_Cosmos._

    (2775)


   =Reviving the Forgotten=--See MEMORY RENEWED.


                         REVOLUTION, CAUSES OF

   It becomes us to watch carefully against crowding society to
   that point of compression where the mass of men have nothing to
   lose and little to live for, with the balance rather in favor
   of dying. Then the last argument, the bayonet, fails against a
   people whom it is of no use to kill. They are the innumerable
   majority. A citizen soldiery sickens at the work of slaughter,
   and like the soldiers of France in the Revolution, will walk
   over to the mob, guns and all. Then, what are you going to do?
   How far are our great cities from that condition? Go through
   the “slums” and see. Look at the wan faces leaning from high
   windows for a breath of what is not the air of heaven. See the
   pallid little children in broken rocking-chairs sitting out
   on the balconies of the fire-escapes, or the five-year-old
   holding the two-year-old from falling out as they lean over the
   window-sill. Coming on the elevated road through such a scene
   one sultry evening lately, the writer saw a woman sitting near a
   window with a look of unutterable sadness; and, while we looked,
   a stout man in shirt sleeves came across the room, stooped down
   and kissed her. She looked up at him pitifully but despairingly,
   shook her head, and began wiping away the tears. Then the swift
   train whirled us from where hearts were breaking. It is ill for
   such men to reach the point where they know that no toil, no
   frugality, no self-denial can make things any better to-morrow,
   or next year, or ten years hence--that no work of arm or brain
   can lift his face from the grindstone, and that this--or
   worse--is all the inheritance he can leave his children. Then
   the sight of a carriage with gold-caparisoned horses, a flash
   of a diamond, or the sweep of a silk dress will make that man
   clench his fist. Thousands of such will pull down a Bastile with
   their bare hands. And in the midst of all this, social leaders
   withdraw into a little clique and parade and proclaim their
   fewness--they are “the Four Hundred.”--J. C. FERNALD,
   _The Statesman_.

    (2776)


   =Reward for Service=--See COURAGE, MORAL.


                          REWARD, RIDICULOUS

   During the heavy rains and floods in the cantons of Geneva and
   Vaud at the end of January (1910), a Swiss railway gatekeeper at
   level crossing named Allaman, hearing an unusual hissing sound,
   walked along the lines, having a presentiment that there was
   something wrong. He found that a stream flowing from the Jura
   mountains into Lake Geneva had become a torrent, and overflowing
   its banks had swept away about thirty yards of the permanent
   way, leaving the rails suspended in the air.

   As the Geneva-Lausanne express traveling at sixty miles an hour
   was due in a few minutes and would be precipitated into the
   torrent with its sixty passengers, Allaman ran to his little
   house for a red flag and stopt the express fifty yards from
   the suspended rails, and then returned home pleased with the
   fact that he had prevented a terrible accident. Some days ago
   the news of the affair arrived at the Bern headquarters of the
   Federal Railway Company, and the Swiss managers thought that
   such an act on the part of a gatekeeper should be rewarded.

   Allaman received his reward this morning for saving the express
   and its sixty travelers from destruction. The reward was 8s.,
   which works out at 1½d. a life.

   If the accident had occurred the Federal Railway Company
   would have been obliged to pay between £8,000 and £10,000
   damages.--Pittsburg _Sun_.

    (2777)


                         REWARD, THOUSANDFOLD

   In India a number of years ago there lived a good Christian
   English judge who was a warm supporter of missions. It came to
   his ears that a certain rich native, possessor of an indigo
   farm, had been cast out of his home and had lost everything
   because of acknowledging Christ as Lord. “Let him come to me,”
   said the judge, “I will employ him as a household servant.” So
   Norbuder came and was child’s attendant in the judge’s family.
   Every evening after dinner the judge assembled the household for
   family prayers, and read the Scripture from the native version.
   One day he came to the verse, “There is no man that hath left
   home or parents or brethren or wife or children for the kingdom
   of God’s sake who shall not receive an hundredfold and shall
   inherit everlasting life.” The judge paused and looked at the
   dark eyes fixt on him, and said, “None of us have left houses or
   lands or wife or children for Christ’s sake but you, Norbuder.
   Will you tell us, is it true what this verse says?” Quietly
   Norbuder took up the Mahratti Testament and read the verse
   through. Then he raised his hand and said, “He says He gives a
   hundredfold; I know He gives a thousandfold.”

    (2778)


   =Rewards, Pecuniary=--See MOTIVE, MERCENARY.


                          REWARDS, SPIRITUAL

   Here is a boy, who, in sweeping out the shop to-morrow morning,
   finds sixpence lying among the orange-boxes. Well, nobody has
   missed it. He puts it in his pocket, and it begins to burn a
   hole there. By breakfast-time he wishes that sixpence were
   in his master’s pocket. And by and by he goes to his master.
   He says (to himself, and not to his master), “I was at the
   Boys’ Brigade yesterday, and I was to seek first that which
   was right.” Then he says to his master, “Please, sir, here is
   sixpence that I found upon the floor.” The master puts it in the
   till. What has the boy got in his pocket? Nothing; but he has
   got the kingdom of God in his heart. He has laid up treasure in
   heaven, which is of infinitely more worth than sixpence. Now,
   that boy does not find a shilling on his way home. I have known
   that to happen, but that is not what is meant by “adding.” It
   does not mean that God is going to pay him in his own coin, for
   He pays in better coin. (Text.)--HENRY DRUMMOND.

    (2779)


   =Rhythm=--See MUSIC, GOOD CHEER IN.


   =Riches=--See WEALTH, COMPARATIVE.


                           RICHES, IMAGINARY

   A Russian folk-story tells of a man who entered a diamond-mine
   in quest of riches. He filled his pockets with precious stones,
   and forthwith flung them all away to make room for larger ones.
   Thirst coming on, he was dismayed to find that there was no
   water. In his delirium he imagined he could hear the flow of
   water, which proved, however, to be the flow of gems and jewels
   running in rivers and falling in cascades.

Only one thing could meet his need in his dire distress, and that was,
not imaginary wealth, but real water. So it is with the soul. (Text.)

    (2780)


                           RICHES UNREALIZED

   George MacDonald, in one of his stories, tells of a father and
   his daughter who lived in an old Scotch castle in poverty, while
   all the time in a secret cupboard were masses of jewels which
   had been put there by an ancestor long years before.

Many a soul is living in poverty of life and experience equally
ignorant of the wealth of joy and service that has been laid up for
him in the purpose of God. (Text.)

    (2781)


   =Riddles of Life=--See SPHINX, THE.


                             RIDICULE, APT

   A very self-respecting and self-asserting bon vivant showed his
   desire to cut down the fees of waiters to a minimum and at the
   same time to ridicule the whole system. As the waiter held out
   his itching palm for the gratuity the epicure dropt a cent into
   it. “Oh, sir, you’ve made a mistake!” blurted out the waiter.
   “No,” replied the donor, with an air of dignified benevolence;
   “I never give less.”--TAVERNER, Boston _Post_.

    (2782)


   =Ridicule Rebuked=--See KINDNESS.


   =Right and Wrong=--See ETHICAL PRINCIPLE.


                             RIGHT LIVING

    What is right living? Just to do your best
    When worst seems easiest. To bear the ills
    Of daily life with patient cheerfulness,
    Nor waste dear time recounting them. To talk
    Of hopeful things when doubt is in the air.
    To count your blessings often, giving thanks,
    And to accept your sorrows silently,
    Nor question why you suffer. To accept
    The whole of life as one perfected plan,
    And welcome each event as part of it.
    To work, and love your work; to trust, to pray
    For larger usefulness and clearer sight,
    This is right living, pleasing in God’s eyes.

    --ANONYMOUS.

    (2783)


                           RIGHT, TRIUMPH OF

Too apt are we to forget the need of patience and to lose sight of the
promise of a sure reward to those who are not weary in well-doing.

   For two generations in the Turkish Empire, during the latter
   half of the nineteenth century and the early years of the
   twentieth, the world at large took little notice of the obscure
   party known as the Young Turks, seeing that its representatives
   for a long period consisted mainly of exiles whose lot seemed
   to be hopeless. But one day it was reported to the amazement of
   the whole world that six hundred young officers of the Turkish
   army had gone up to the mountains at Monastir, and had startled
   the Sultan by sending a telegram to Constantinople demanding
   the convocation of the Parliament which he had supprest long
   before. Rigid orders were immediately sent from the capital to
   shoot them to the very last man. Now these officers formed the
   flower and hope of the country. They were brave, cultured, and
   patriotic, and the rest of the army well-knew their quality.
   The regiment from Anatolia sent to shoot them not only refused
   to raise arms against their brethren, but immediately joined
   them, and regiment after regiment followed suit. Then came the
   revolution and the reward of those who had waited so long.
   (Text.)

    (2784)


                        RIGHT VERSUS EXPEDIENCY

   During the unparalleled excitement caused by Wilkes’ outlawry
   in 1768, Lord Mansfield, on pronouncing the judgment of the
   King’s Bench reversing the outlawry, discoursed on the terrors
   held out against judges, and the attempts at intimidating
   them. He said: “I honor the king and respect the people, but
   many things acquired by the favor of either are in my account
   objects not worth ambition. I wish popularity; but it is that
   popularity which follows not that which is run after; it
   is that popularity which sooner or later never fails to do
   justice to the pursuit of noble ends by noble means. I will
   not do that which my conscience tells me is wrong upon this
   occasion to gain the huzzas of thousands, or the daily praise
   of all the papers which come from the press. I will not avoid
   doing what I think is right tho it should draw on me the
   whole artillery of libels--all that falsehood and malice can
   invent, or the credulity of a deluded populace can swallow.”
   (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (2785)


   =Righteousness=--See CONVICTIONS, STRONG.


   =Rights Preferred to Privilege=--See POLITENESS.


                                 RISK

   It is better to go down on the great seas which human hearts
   were made to sail than to rot at the wharves in ignoble
   anchorage.--HAMILTON W. MABIE.

    (2786)


                             RISK SHIFTED

   A young lady, in giving her reasons for preferring a particular
   church, remarked that she “liked it best because it allowed
   its members to dance.” She had been brought up to regard this
   as inconsistent for a professor of religion. She could not help
   feeling that it was running a risk to try to get to heaven and
   carry the world with her. But here was comfort. She had found a
   religious guide on which she could, as she fancied, shift off
   the responsibility. Instead of deciding for herself, in the
   light of Christ’s teachings, she chose to take a second-hand
   opinion of a mere man as a rule.

   One is reminded of an incident related by Dr. Whately, of
   an old bridge which had long been thought unsafe even for
   foot passengers. People usually went a considerable distance
   around rather than venture upon it. But one evening a woman in
   great haste came up to the bridge before she reflected on its
   unsafe condition. It was late, and she had yet to dress for a
   party. She could not go all the way around, tho still afraid
   to venture. At last a happy thought seemed to strike her. She
   called for a sedan chair, and was carried over. Now the young
   lady who desired to follow the world and go to heaven too, was
   afraid to trust her own judgment on the subject of dancing.
   She feared the tottering arch might give way, and she be lost
   forever. To make all safe, she added to the weight of her own
   chance of error the additional chances of her human authority
   being wrong also.

    (2787)


   =Risking Life=--See COOLNESS IN DANGER.


   =Rivalry=--See STIMULUS FROM RIVALRY.


                             RIVERS OF GOD

The Rev. Thomas G. Selby says:

   Copious and unfailing rivers run just beneath the burning
   desolations of the Sahara. Twenty or thirty feet under the
   sand-drifts there is an impervious sheet of rock which prevents
   the escape of the collected rain-waters. It is easy to see the
   oasis, but not so easy to track the windings of the hidden
   river. The skilled engineer can get at the river, bring it
   up through his wells, and change the desert into an earthly
   paradise.

   Society at large is not the dreary, all-devouring, illimitable
   ethical waste we often imagine. The rivers of God flow under
   natures we call reprobate, and create penitential moods which
   are the earnest of a coming righteousness. It is easy to map out
   the strips of moral fruitfulness which appear here and there in
   the world, but not so easy to find the deep secret contrition of
   those who are often classed as abandoned outcasts. The Savior
   of the world has an insight into character which enables him to
   see promise where men less sympathetic and discerning see the
   black marks of reprobation; and the angels share the visions of
   the Lord on whom they wait. It is by His art, as the Prophet
   of coming good, that the desert is made to bloom.--“The Divine
   Craftsman.”

    (2788)


   =Robbery, Moral=--See REPENTANCE, LATE.


                           ROBBING JUSTIFIED

   A wife has a right to rob her husband, in some cases, according
   to a decision of Judge Gemmell in the Municipal Court (Chicago).
   Gustave H. DeKolkey had had his wife arrested for taking money
   from him by force.

   “My wife robbed me right in my own home,” said DeKolkey. “She
   got a boarder and her brother to help hold me. Then she went
   through my pockets and got $11.”

   Mrs. DeKolkey was led up in front of the court’s desk.

   “Did you rob him?” asked the judge.

   “Yes, I did,” she said. “There was no other way to get money out
   of him. He hasn’t given me a cent for over a year. So I decided
   to rob him. I called my brother and we held him and I got what
   was in his pockets.”

   “This is a plain case of robbery,” said the judge, “but it was
   perfectly justifiable under the circumstances. The defendant is
   discharged. A wife has the right to hold up her husband when
   he squanders his wages and does not give her enough for her
   support.”

    (2789)


   =Rock of Ages=--See SECURITY.


   =Room Enough=--See UPWARD, LOOK.


                            ROOT CONNECTION

   To-day I have been transplanting magnolia-trees. There is one
   that stands among the earliest I planted, twenty years ago, and
   now it is a vast ball of white. I suppose five hundred thousand
   magnificent cups are exhaling thanksgiving to God after the long
   winter has passed. Now, no man need tell me that the root that
   nestles in the ground is as handsome or smells as sweet as these
   vases in the air; but I should like to know what would become of
   all these white cups in the air if the connection between those
   dirt-covered roots and the blossoms should be cut to-night.
   The root is the prime provider, and there can be no life and
   no blossom where there is no root connection.--HENRY WARD
   BEECHER.

    (2790)


                          ROTE VERSUS REASON

Soon after I had left school--and when I was a freshman at college--I
made the acquaintance of a young man of about my own age who possest
a most marvelous memory, while he also showed most marvelous mental
density. He had occasion to pass examination in Euclid, as we all
of us did at the university at those times, and one would have said
that he would have been singularly successful in these examinations,
for, tho he had only read through our college Euclid once, he could
recite or write out the whole of it; or, if preferred, he could begin
at any point where one might start him and reproduce any quantity
_verbatim et literatim_--_atque punctuatim_--so far as that
was concerned. But not only was he utterly unable to understand a word
of it all, he had not even brains enough to keep his real ignorance of
Euclid to himself. He was always forgetting the good old rule _ne
quid nimis_, and as he did not know where to stop in his marvelous
recitations, the examiners naturally came to the conclusion, perfectly
justified by the facts, that he knew his Euclid by heart, but knew
nothing about geometry.--RICHARD A. PROCTOR, New York _Mail
and Express_.

    (2791)


                                ROUTINE

   Commenting on the well-known dislike of the late Russell Sage
   for vacations, _Forest and Stream_ says: “An office dig
   who digs voluntarily is as uneasy and as unhappy on a holiday
   as were those Pennsylvania mine mules which, on the occasion of
   the coal strike, were for the first time in many years lifted
   to the surface and turned out into the green fields in the
   sunlight. The poor creatures were in actual pain until they got
   back again into the darkness and the close atmosphere in the
   mine. The trouble with them was, that their whole nature as
   surface-dwellers had been supplanted by the attributes common to
   moles and the blind fishes of Mammoth Cave, and they could not
   stand in the open air and the light. So with a human being under
   the obsession of inordinate money-getting. The loss of time is
   only one component of the restlessness which attacks him after
   he gets away from the rut. His nature has become so molded and
   restricted to the ruling passion that he has lost capacity for
   finding employment in other things, least of all in vacation
   surroundings and vacation ways.”

    (2792)


                                ROYALTY

Where was the real royalty as between the two individuals mentioned in
this historic incident?

   It was arranged by his friends that Doctor Morrison should
   be presented to George IV that he might bestow a copy of the
   Chinese Bible upon His Majesty. Who would not have liked to
   witness the interview! On the throne sat “the handsomest
   prince in Christendom, the finest gentleman of Europe” (so
   his courtiers told him), but whom Thackeray dubs “a monstrous
   image of pride, vanity and weakness,” who had lived sixty-two
   years and done nothing but invent a shoe-buckle; who had
   spent hundreds of thousands, nay, millions, on mere sensual
   gratification. Fifty thousand dollars a year, we are told, it
   took to clothe that royal back. Before His Gracious Majesty
   stood the son of a farmhand, Robert Morrison, twenty years his
   junior, who had lived simply and given largely; who had found
   out a useful thing to do, and had worked at it so faithfully
   that he had raised himself to be the equal of the greatest man
   in the realm.

   Robert bent the knee and presented the Chinese Bible to his
   sovereign, which gift His Imperial Highness was pleased to
   accept. But it is to be feared that His Imperial Highness’
   morals were no more benefited by the Chinese than by the English
   version.

    (2793)


   =Royalty, Spirit of=--See CHRISTIAN SPIRIT, THE.


   =Royalty Unrecognized=--See BARGAIN-MAKING.


   =Royalty’s Kindness=--See APPRECIATION.


   =Rubbish=--See VALUE IN RUBBISH.


   =Rudeness, Reaction of=--See RETALIATION.


   =Ruin, Spiritual=--See NEGLECTED LIVES.


                            RUINS UTILIZED

A news item from Gainesville, Fla., says:

   English and Eastern capitalists have bought a site here and it
   is said will invest $2,000,000 in mills for the manufacture of
   paper from the fiber obtained from pine stumps, thousands of
   which may be had in the immediate neighborhood.

The old pine stumps are useless. They are only the remains of past
possibility and power. Their hope for future usefulness seems gone.
Yet there is a new and better future for them, a greater possibility
than ever known before. So in the realm of human lives a character that
seems to be ruined is often reclaimed to useful living.

    (2794)




                                   S


                       SABBATH-BREAKING REBUKED

   I remember on one occasion, when an immense quantity of freight
   was to be brought from New York to Boston, they undertook to
   run on the Sabbath day. They came up with a large load of
   cotton, and on coming near to M---- a bale got afire, and there
   were not hands enough to roll it off. They then drove to M----
   and rang the bells, and the people came down to the number of
   three hundred. “Help us,” said the railway people, “to put
   out the fire.” “No; you have no business to run that train on
   the Sabbath.” They then sent up to one of the directors and
   said: “If you speak a word, these men will bring us water;
   there is property being destroyed.” “I voted in the board of
   directors,” he replied, “against this running on the Sabbath,
   and if you burn the whole freight, I will not raise a finger.”
   And the two carloads of cotton were destroyed. The company had
   to pay for them--but they ran no more trains on the Sabbath.
   (Text.)--JOHN B. GOUGH.

    (2795)


   =Sabbath Desecration=--See PUNCTILIOUSNESS.


                      SABBATH DESECRATION GRADUAL

   The desecration of the temple in Jerusalem did not spring up
   full-statured in a day. The court of the Gentiles was a spacious
   place, having an area of fourteen acres. Round its four sides
   there ran a colonnade with four rows of marble pillars and a
   roof of costly cedar. Many things were needed in the sacrifices
   of the temple, and what place more convenient for the buying
   of them than this great, spacious court? One day, I imagine, a
   man stept inside with a cage of pigeons. A bird so small and
   sweet-voiced as a dove could not hurt the sacred place! By and
   by a man with a sheep to sell led it in. A sheep is the most
   innocent of all animals. No harm could come to God or man from
   the presence of a sheep. Still later the man with a steer to
   sell brought him in. “I have as much right here as you have,” he
   said to the man with the sheep and the man with the pigeons, and
   soon there were a dozen steers. That is the way it all happened.
   The abuse grew up so gradually that nobody observed it, and
   before men knew it the sacredness of the place was gone. Just
   so does the desecration of the day of rest take place in great
   cities. One man steps into the temple of rest, saying: “Let me
   sing you a little song.” His voice is sweet and the song is
   pretty, and what is so beautiful and innocent as a song? And a
   man outside hearing this song inside the temple says: “I think
   I’ll come in and sing, too.” His voice is harsh and his song is
   a different kind of a song, but in he comes, and who is wise
   enough to draw the line and say this song is proper, that song
   will never do? And while these two men are singing, another
   man who can not sing at all, and who can only use his feet,
   decides that he, too, has a right to exercise his gifts inside
   the temple, and in he comes, and after him a dozen others, and
   after them a hundred others, some bringing doves, some sheep,
   some steers, until the whole day is trampled into sordidness and
   one of the most precious of all the privileges of man has been
   wrested from him.--CHARLES E. JEFFERSON.

    (2796)


                        SABBATH, OBSERVING THE

   In northern Canada Mr. Evans, the apostle to the Indians there,
   induced a large number to become Christians, and said to them,
   “Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy.” At this time all
   the furs were carried by brigades of Indians, and the exchange
   cargo taken away by them. The Indians had been in the habit
   of traveling seven days a week, but when the mission was
   established, the observance of the Sabbath began. At once there
   was opposition from the Hudson Bay Company. They argued “Our
   summer is short, and to lose one day in seven is a terrible loss
   to us. We will run you missionaries out of the country if you
   interfere with our business.” There was downright persecution
   for years, but there is none now, for it was found that the
   Indians who traveled only six days and rested quietly on the
   Sabbath made a journey of a thousand or fifteen hundred miles
   without a single exception in less time, and came back in better
   health than those who did not observe the Sabbath rest. (Text.)

    (2797)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The last sermon that was preached by Rev. J. Hudson Taylor,
   the founder of the China Inland Mission, was one which the
   _North China Mail_ characterized as “a mile long.” He was
   under appointment to preach that same day at a station one
   mile distant from his home. He was too feeble to walk that
   distance without rest, and he was unwilling to be carried in a
   sedan-chair because he feared the evil influence of what would
   have been--to him--perfectly innocent. So he made the journey
   on foot, helped by his son, who carried a stool. Every few rods
   the stool was placed and Mr. Taylor sat on it and rested. The
   attention of the Chinese, Christians and Confucianists alike,
   was attracted. Every little while some one would ask: “Why
   does not the old man ride?” “Because he will not make any one
   else work on the Sabbath day.” “Why not?” “Because God said,
   ‘Remember the Sabbath day and keep it holy,’” was the reply
   (Text.)

    (2798)

   See PRINCIPLE; SUNDAY RECORDED.

       *       *       *       *       *

The true philosophy of religion invariably teaches that we act wisely
when we conform to the requirements of Sabbatic rest from toil. Such
conformity is simply the recognition of a beneficent natural law.

   In 1909 Mr. Selfridge, of Chicago, established a great American
   store in London. It immediately became a great popular success.
   Speaking to an interviewer, Mr. Selfridge said: “I am a business
   man, and not a preacher, but still I feel strongly that fair
   dealing is not only right, but wise--to put it on the lowest
   ground. If you treat people fairly, you will be fairly treated
   by them in return, and somehow or another the religious method
   of carrying on business has not failed in the case of Marshall
   Field. I will give you one curious instance of this. Our house
   never advertises in the Sunday papers, with the extraordinary
   result that we prospered in direct consequence. Many warned us
   that we were holding to a suicidal policy, for in America Sunday
   papers are the chief means of publicity. Our method turned out
   most effective, because it forced itself upon the notice of
   every woman in the United States that Marshall Field & Co. did
   not advertise on Sunday, and that fact was a great advertisement
   in itself. But who--out of a religious tract--would ever have
   dreamed of such a topsyturvy result?” (Text.)

    (2799)


                          SABBATH, PROFITABLE

Egerton Young gives this testimony about Sabbath-keeping by the Indians
of British Columbia:

   When our mission was established, all the missionaries went
   in for the observance of the Sabbath day. At once there was
   opposition from the Hudson Bay Company. They argued, “Our summer
   is short, the people have to work in a hurry, and to lose one
   day in seven will be a terrible loss to us, and you missionaries
   must get out of the country if you are going to interfere with
   our business.” There was downright persecution for years,
   but there is none now, for it was found that the brigades of
   Indians who traveled only six days, and quietly rested on the
   Sabbath, made the journey of perhaps fifteen hundred miles,
   without a single exception, in less time, and came back in
   better health, than those who traveled without observing the
   Sabbath.--PIERSON, “The Miracles of Missions.”

    (2800)


                          SABBATH, REGARD FOR

Rev. Egerton R. Young, a missionary among the Canadian Indians, tells
the following:

   The governor of our colony sent out one of his commissioners to
   meet the Indians and give them their supplies in accordance with
   the treaty. The commissioner sent word to one of our Christian
   Indians to bring his people as far as a certain place and he
   would be there to distribute their allowances. The Indians
   were on hand at the time appointed. They came empty handed,
   expecting to receive an abundance immediately, but the big
   white commissioner did not arrive. One day passed, then another,
   and the Indians were hungry. The food was there in tantalizing
   abundance, but the commissioner did not come to distribute it.
   The young Indians came to their chief and said, “Pakan, our
   wives and children are crying for food; will you not open the
   boxes and give us enough to satisfy them?” “No, my children,”
   said the chief, “I have never broken a word of treaty and I do
   not want to do it now.” Another day passed and the commissioner
   did not come. The young Indians’ eyes began to flash forth
   something that boded trouble, but the old chief answered, “Have
   patience a little longer, my people,” and he called on an Indian
   who had a splendid horse to accompany him to find and hurry up
   the dilatory commissioner. About noon they met the commissioner
   with a large retinue and a company of his friends coming
   leisurely along, stopping for sport where the country abounded
   in game.

   They were just halting for such an afternoon’s sport when Pakan
   rode up. “You have broken your promise to my people,” he said
   solemnly. “You were to have met with them three days ago. Don’t
   stop here, my people are hungry. Come with me and give them
   food.”

   The commissioner replied with an easy smile, “Oh, Pakan, I’m
   glad to see you. Come and dine with us. Meet my friends; have an
   afternoon of hunting and then to-morrow I will go with you.”

   “No,” said Pakan, “to-morrow is the Sabbath. I and my people
   have been taught to keep the Sabbath, and hungry as we are,
   unless you come to-day, I and my people will wait until Monday
   for the supplies.”

   The commissioner quailed before him, and sent a sub-officer back
   with him to open the supplies. The next day the commissioner
   rode into camp. He expected the Indians to meet him with firing
   of guns and waving of flags, but no one came to receive him,
   and no guns were fired. The only wigwam where a flag was flying
   was the place where the people were meeting to worship God. The
   commissioner called a council, but not an Indian responded. The
   commissioner wanted Pakan to dine with him with other guests
   that day. It is a great honor to dine with a royal commissioner;
   but Pakan said, “I dine with my family quietly on the Sabbath
   day, for God has said, ‘Remember the Sabbath day to keep it
   holy.’”

    (2801)


                         SABBATH, THE, FOR MAN

   Among those who opposed and criticized Father Mathew were the
   Sabbatarians, who opposed the holding of temperance meetings
   on Sunday. Father Mathew replied: “They must well know that if
   we did not assemble on the Lord’s day, we could not hold our
   meetings at all, for the great majority of those who compose our
   society are from that useful and virtuous body, the operatives,
   who on every other day labor from the rising to the setting sun.
   The temperance cause is the work of the Most High God, and it is
   admirable in our eyes.”

    (2802)


   =Sackcloth=--See BIBLE CUSTOMS TO-DAY.


                             SACRED THINGS

   A Scotch preacher tells this story. He said that he was going
   through the highlands of Scotland when a storm came on. He stept
   out of his carriage, and went up to a little Scotch hut. He was
   invited to enter by the woman whose home it was. In one corner
   of the room there stood an old rocking-chair, and he was just
   going to sit in this, when the Scotch woman made one spring,
   and stopt him. She said: “No, no. Do not sit there.” And the
   preacher said: “Why?” “Well,” she said, “look.” And round about
   it was wrapt a scarlet cord. She said: “It was a year ago this
   week, sir, when our good lady, her Majesty Queen Victoria was
   driving along this road and a storm came on. She came in, and we
   gave her this chair. And when the Queen went away, we said, ‘We
   will put a scarlet cord around it, and nobody else shall ever
   sit in it. It is the Queen’s chair.’”

    (2803)


                               SACRIFICE

   John B. Kissinger submitted to the bite of a yellow fever
   mosquito in the interest of science while in the army in Cuba
   and was for years almost helpless.

   Kissinger was bitten by mosquitoes carrying yellow fever germs
   and was then treated by the best medical experts in the army. It
   was supposed he had recovered his health and that as a result
   of the experiment yellow fever could be guarded against, but he
   later suffered a breakdown and became a physical wreck, unable
   to use his feet and legs.

Is not the willingness to suffer for man the very spirit of Christ?
(Text.)

    (2804)

   Rev. E. J. Marsh, missionary at Hay River, Alaska, told his
   Indian boarding-school children about the needs of the leper
   children in China. They were moved to help, and asked Mr. Marsh
   how they could do so. Their clothing and food were all supplied
   them by the mission, and they had nothing to give. After a
   little they proposed that they should give up their pudding
   on Sunday. Their fare consisted of fish three times a day,
   sometimes potatoes, but on Sunday as a special treat they had
   rice pudding without sugar. They were so insistent, that they
   were allowed to go without it every second Sunday and at the end
   of the year a gift of two pounds was sent to the leper children
   in China.

    (2805)

       *       *       *       *       *

   One of the New York dailies printed in one of its issues as a
   sort of sensational advertisement, coupons, which served, when
   filled out, as life insurance policies for the remainder of
   the day on which they were issued. One of the newsboys read it
   over and over, then called some of his companions and wanted to
   know if they supposed that “was on the level”; if the newspaper
   “would make good.” He decided at last that the proposition was
   one to be trusted and he cut out the coupon, tucked it away
   in the pocket of his ragged coat. A half-hour later he threw
   himself beneath the wheels of one of the surface electric cars
   and was instantly crusht to almost a shapeless mass. In his
   pocket was the coupon, together with a letter, stating that his
   mother was sick and in need of such assistance as he had not
   been able to obtain for her, and so had sacrificed his life for
   the insurance money that was to be paid to her.

As we read the story one does not think of the grimy hands and the
unwashed face and the ragged coat. He does not hear the roar of the
elevated trains above or the tumult and voices of the street below, but
his eyes catch the glory of a second calvary and the soul is hushed
before the divine and the eternal that beat in that little heart behind
that stained and tattered coat. (Text.)

    (2806)

   See OFFERINGS, EXTRAVAGANT; SCIENCE, DEVOTION TO.


                           SACRIFICE, FILIAL

   The Japanese have a legend of an Emperor who commanded a
   bell-founder to cast a bell that would be more beautiful than
   any ever made and to be heard a hundred miles away. It must be
   made of gold, silver and brass. But the metals would not mingle,
   and the founder failed. The Emperor was angry, and bade him
   try again. His beautiful daughter was troubled for her father
   in his perplexity. So she consulted an oracle. “How can I save
   him?” she asked. “Metals will mingle if the blood of a virgin
   be mixt with them,” said the oracle suggestively. At the proper
   moment the devoted daughter threw herself into her father’s
   melting-pot. The bell was perfect, and was hung in the palace
   tower.

This kind of sacrifice is not to be commended as a literal process,
but it remains true that no great music of the soul is born that does
not have in it some sacrificial element. Heaven’s melodies would never
sound if lives were not cast into the furnace. (Text.)

    (2807)


                         SACRIFICE FOR CHRIST

Rev. Robert P. Wilder, of India, tells of a Brahman who decided to
become a Christian.

   The day he published the fact that he was a Christian an
   official seal was placed on his house, signifying that he had
   lost his position under the native government. A friend with
   whom he had placed his money, sent word that he knew nothing
   of the money, and his wife said that she could no longer live
   with him, and she left his home, taking with her their child.
   For four years he suffered the loss of position, money, wife,
   son and friends; altho at any moment he could have regained all
   by denying Christ and going back to Brahmanism. Mr. Wilder then
   received this glad letter from him: “You will be delighted to
   hear that we are still fast friends--Jesus and myself. He says
   to me, ‘I chose you and appointed you that you should go and
   bear fruit, and that your fruit should abide.’ I say to Him,
   ‘Then never leave me even for a minute. Let me abide in Thee
   and Thou in me.’ You will be glad to hear, too, that I have
   been permitted to spend a fortnight with my wife and child, and
   I believe that they will soon now come to Jesus and to me. God
   has been keeping them away from me for my good in this--that I
   should feel undivided love for my Savior.”

    (2808)


   =Sacrifice for Missions=--See OPPOSITION TO MISSIONARY WORK.


                        SACRIFICE FOR RELIGION

Mrs. W. F. Armstrong tells this incident of the native Karens, of
Burmah:

   An old Karen pastor came one day with a large contribution for
   the foreign mission work. I said to him, “How can your people
   give so much? I know they are very poor, the overflow of the
   river has swept away your crops, your cattle are dying of
   disease, it is the famine time with you.” “Oh,” he said, with
   such a contented smile, “it only means rice without curry.” They
   could live on rice and salt, but they could not live without
   giving the bread of life to their brethren.--PIERSON,
   “The Miracles of Missions.”

    (2809)


   =Sacrifice for the Gospel=--See SLAVE FOR THE GOSPEL’S SAKE.


                           SACRIFICE, LAW OF

   The great law of sacrifice, so dimly understood by Western
   people, is the commonest talk of Korea. For thousands of years
   sheep and oxen have died for the sins of the people. Birds and
   beasts have been offered in a vain effort to lift this burden
   from the human soul. I read in a history of Korea that in the
   year when our Savior was born in Bethlehem, the King of Kokuryu
   went out into the open plain to offer sacrifice to God. Two
   “swine beasts” were to be offered, but in the preparation of the
   sacrifice they took to their heels and ran away. The King sent
   two officers in pursuit, Messrs. Takni and Sappi. They chased
   the pigs to Long Jade Lake, caught them and ham-strung them, so
   that they could not run again; then they dragged them before
   the King. “How dare you,” said he, “offer to God a mutilated
   sacrifice?” He had these two gentlemen buried alive for their
   sin, but behold he himself shortly after fell seriously ill. A
   spirit medium called and told him his sickness was due to the
   sin of having killed Takni and Sappi. He confest, and prayed,
   and was cured of his complaint.--JAMES S. GALE, “Korea
   in Transition.”

    (2810)


                         SACRIFICE OF OUR BEST

   Sir Charles Halle, the famous musician, dearly loved his flute.
   His son, a boy of eight years, lay ill, and his father tenderly
   watched beside the sufferer’s bed. One night the father fell
   asleep and the fire burned low. He awoke in alarm to find his
   son cold. The father threw his precious flute on to the coal to
   increase the heat.

Love gave its best and silenced the music of the flute for the sake of
love for his son. So did divine love, for a sinsick world, give its
best, and silence its music in the sorrow of the Man of Sorrows. (Text.)

    (2811)


                           SACRIFICE, PAGAN

   On the 4th of March, 1899, a Hindu laborer lodged a complaint
   at the police office at Hingoli. He said that as he was passing
   a cotton-ginning mill some of his countrymen came out and asked
   him to enter the compound. When he did so they seized him and
   bore him off to the furnace-room and attempted to put him into
   the fire. He showed the magistrate some terrible burns he had
   suffered, and his story, upon investigation, was found to be
   true. The _Indian Antiquary_, telling of the incident,
   remarked that the unanimous opinion among all the natives
   was that it was the workmen’s idea to offer the poor man as
   a sacrifice to the steam-engine, which had not been running
   satisfactorily.

    (2812)


                         SACRIFICE TOO COSTLY

Mrs. Pickett, the widow of General George E. Pickett, of the
Confederate Army, narrating the story of the charge at Gettysburg so
gallantly led by her husband, says:

   They were not strong enough to hold the position they had so
   dearly won; and broken-hearted, even at the very moment of his
   immortal triumph, my Soldier led his remaining men down the
   slope again. He dismounted and walked beside the stretcher upon
   which General Kemper, one of his officers, was being carried,
   fanning him and speaking cheerfully to comfort him in his
   suffering. When he reached Seminary Ridge again and reported to
   General Lee, his face was wet with tears as he pointed to the
   crimson valley and said:

   “My noble division lies there!”

   “General Pickett,” said the commander, “you and your men have
   covered yourselves with glory.”

   My Soldier replied:

   “Not all the glory in the world, General Lee, could atone for
   the widows and orphans this day has made.”

    (2813)


                         SACRIFICE, VICARIOUS

   Among the Tsimshean Indians of Alaska is the following curious
   superstition: Some boys had “shamed” a salmon; that is, offended
   its dignity. They caught it, cut a slit close to its fin and
   put gravel and stones in the wound so that it could not use its
   fin, and then let it go. The poor salmon wriggled and suffered
   trying to swim, but in vain. This made the god of the mountain
   angry, and he spewed out fire which ran down the mountain-side
   into the river, making it sputter all around. But a god of
   another mountain, near by, thought it was too bad, so he rolled
   down a big rock, and stopt the fire stream. The people, coming
   together, consulted as to the best way to propitiate the irate
   mountain-god, and the salmon as well who was “shamed,” and came
   to the conclusion that the naughty children had to be killed.
   The mothers, hearing of this, would not allow the sacrifice. The
   people compromised the matter by agreeing, instead, to kill the
   dogs of the village, which were thereupon all sacrificed and
   burned as a peace-offering to the “shamed” salmon.

Man has “shamed” his Maker but He has become our propitiation by a
nobler sacrifice. (Text.)

    (2814)


                         SACRIFICIAL MEDIATION

   H. M. Stanley, in Africa, had much trouble with his men on
   account of their inherent propensity to steal, the results of
   which brought upon the expedition much actual disaster. At
   last Stanley doomed to death the next man caught stealing. His
   grief and distress were unbounded when the next thief, detected
   in a case of peculiar flagrancy, was found to be Uledi, the
   bravest, truest, noblest of his dusky followers. Uledi had saved
   a hundred lives, his own among the number. He had performed
   acts of the most brilliant daring, always successful, always
   faithful, always kind. Must Uledi die? He called all his men
   around him in a council. He explained to them the gravity of
   Uledi’s crime. He reminded them of his stern decree, but said
   he was not hard enough to enforce it against Uledi. His arm
   was not strong enough to lift the gun that would kill Uledi,
   and he would not bid one of them to do what he could not do
   himself. But some punishment, and a hard one, must be meted
   out. What should it be? The council must decide. They took a
   vote. Uledi must be flogged. When the decision was reached,
   Stanley standing, Uledi crouching at his feet and the solemn
   circle drawn closely around them, one man whose life Uledi had
   saved under circumstances of frightful peril, stood forth and
   said, “Give me half the blows, master.” Then another said in
   the faintest accents, while tears fell from his eyes, “Will the
   master give his slave leave to speak?” “Yes,” said Stanley. The
   Arab came forward and knelt by Uledi’s side. His words came
   slowly, and now and then a sob broke them. “The master is wise,”
   he said; “he knows all that has been, for he writes them in
   a book. I am black, and know not. Nor can I remember what is
   past. What we saw yesterday is to-day forgotten. But the master
   forgets nothing. He puts it all in that book. Each day something
   is written. Let your slave fetch the book, master, and turn
   its leaves. Maybe you will find some words there about Uledi.
   Maybe there is something that tells how he saved Zaidi from the
   white waters of the cataract; how he saved many men--how many,
   I forget; Bin Ali, Mabruki, Kooi Kusi--others, too; how he is
   worthier than any three of us; how he always listens when the
   master speaks, and flies forth at his word. Look, master, at
   the book. Then, if the blows must be struck, Shumari will take
   half and I the other half. The master will do what is right.
   Saywa has spoken.” And Saywa’s speech deserves to live forever.
   Stanley threw away his whip. “Uledi is free,” he said. “Shumari
   and Saywa are pardoned.”--_Christian At Work._

    (2815)


                        SAFEGUARD FOR DRUNKARDS

   Fond du Lac, Wisconsin, has an ordinance requiring the
   photographs of known habitual drunkards to be placed in all the
   saloons in the city, with a notice forbidding saloon-keepers to
   sell liquor to them, on penalty of losing their licenses.

   This new sort of rogues’ gallery is growing rapidly, but one
   addition to it was made voluntarily. It is the photograph of a
   poor fellow who begged to have it placed with the others, as his
   only chance of freedom from the tyranny of strong drink.

   Set off against this pathetic story, how inhuman seem all the
   arguments for the licensing of saloons! The pitiable victims of
   the saloon-keeper would gladly escape his snare, but usually
   they can not. The insidious liquid has robbed them of their
   willpower. It has planted in their blood a horrible desire which
   nothing but more alcohol can satisfy.

    (2816)


                       SAFETY FROM WATER-BROOKS

T. DeWitt Talmage notes some interesting facts about deer and
water-brooks.

   But there are two facts to which I want to call your attention.
   The first is that water-brooks not only saved the hunted deer by
   throwing the dogs off the trail, but also by making it possible
   for the deer to run in a straight line away from the dogs. I was
   very much surprized to find out that these water-brooks are to
   the deer what the compass is to a hunter in the woods--it keeps
   the deer from traveling in a circle.

   The pursued deer, unless drawn by the scent of water, always
   runs in a circle. No sooner has a deer been shot at and the dogs
   been turned loose, than at once the deer, unless he has the
   guiding scent of water, seems to lose his reasoning faculties.
   He will run like the wind. He will run on and on--five, ten,
   fifteen or even twenty miles; but unless he can scent the
   water-brooks from afar, he will always travel in a circle and
   come back to the very place where the hunter first shot at
   him--back to the place where he will be shot at again. This
   circling flight of the deer is universally recognized. Some of
   the different State Legislatures have enacted game laws, which
   make it a felony for any man to hunt the deer by the means of
   hounds. Why? If they did not make such a law, the deer of those
   States would soon be exterminated. The circling flight of the
   deer makes it a very simple matter for a few hunters to stand in
   one place and shoot at the running game again and again, until
   the deer have been entirely slaughtered. (Text.)

    (2817)


                         SAFETY IN HIGH LEVEL

   You are familiar with the sight of the water-towers on the hills
   over many of our towns. Some one might say, “What is the use
   of the water-tower? Why should I be taxed to keep the level of
   the water above my own house? I have my private well and my
   excellent cistern. These are good enough for me.” But no citizen
   to-day would dream of saying this word. Every one knows that as
   the level is high in the water-tower, the safety, comfort, and
   health of the whole city are secured. The height of the level
   in the tower means that all alike can have the pure water. The
   height of the level means, when a conflagration arises, that
   the engines can put out the fire. So with the true thought of
   the Church. The true church is the water-tower of the city. Its
   life is for all. As the level is high, so the public safety,
   the public morals, the political life of the city is raised.
   When the level is high no real danger can come to the city. All
   alike, rich and poor, are fed and sustained, when the level
   of genuine religion rises high in the tower.--CHARLES F.
   DALE.

    (2818)


   =Safety More Than Economy=--See AFFLUENCE, THE PRINCIPLES OF.


   =Safety, So-called=--See DEATH, CHRISTIAN ATTITUDE TOWARD.


                             SAFETY VALVES

   It is difficult to realize that only the other day an effort
   was made in Paris to replace the old magneto signaling system,
   with its little crank at the right of the telephone which has
   not been seen in large cities in this country for many years,
   by the much more convenient automatic signaling system. But
   the Paris correspondent of the New York _Times_ says that
   such was the case. And, more curious still, the effort to
   introduce this improvement met with disfavor! The correspondent
   explains: “Hitherto excitable Frenchmen whiled away the time
   while awaiting ‘Central’ to answer, by grinding furiously at
   the crank bell-call. The new system denied them this form of
   relief. The result was that their pent-up feelings found outlet
   in imprecations and wild gesticulations. In many cases the
   telephones were damaged by poundings and shakings and had to be
   removed. It is said that the French Minister of Telephones was
   forced to admit that the imported system was a complete failure.
   ‘The new system may be good enough for the highly-trained
   Americans,’ he is quoted as saying, ‘but I am convinced that my
   excitable countrymen need the safety-valve of the old-fashioned
   bell.’”--_The Western Electrician._

    (2819)


   =Sagacity=--See RETREAT DISCOURAGED.


   =Sagacity in Evil=--See IMPUDENCE, BRAZEN.


                    SAGACITY SUPPLEMENTING SCIENCE

An English writer tells this story:

   Once a French chemist came to Yorkshire, his object being to
   make his fortune. He believed that he might do this by picking
   up something which Yorkshiremen threw away. That something was
   soap-suds. The cloth-workers of Yorkshire use tons and tons of
   soap for scouring their materials, and throw away millions of
   gallons of soap-suds. Besides this, there are manufactories of
   sulfuric acid near at hand, and a large demand for machinery
   grease just thereabouts. He accordingly bought iron tanks,
   and erected works in the midst of the busiest center of the
   woolen manufacture. But he failed to pay expenses, for in his
   calculations he had omitted to allow for the fact that the soap
   liquor is much diluted, and therefore he must carry much water
   in order to obtain a little fat. This cost of carriage ruined
   his enterprise, and his works were offered for sale.

   When he was about to demolish the works, the Frenchman took the
   purchaser, a shrewd Yorkshireman, into confidence, and told the
   story of his failure. The Yorkshireman, having finally assured
   himself that the carriage was the only difficulty, made an offer
   of partnership on the basis that the Frenchman should do the
   chemistry of the work, and that he should do the rest.

   Accordingly, he went to the works around, and offered to
   contract for the purchase of all their soap-suds, if they would
   allow him to put up a tank or two on their premises. This he
   did; the acid was added, the fat rose to the surface, was
   skimmed off, and carried, without the water, to the central
   works. The Frenchman’s science and skill, united with the
   Yorkshireman’s practical sagacity, built up a flourishing
   business, and the grease thus made is still in great demand and
   high repute for lubricating the rolling-mills of iron-works, and
   for many other kinds of machinery.

    (2820)


                                SAINTS

James Bryce, the British ambassador, in a speech before the St.
George’s Society, is thus reported:

   With regard to the patron saint of England, St. George, Mr.
   Bryce asked the diners if they had ever noticed that the saints
   never belonged to the countries which had adopted them. St.
   Denis was not a Frenchman, St. Andrew was not a Scotsman, and
   St. Patrick was not an Irishman. All that was known of St.
   George was that he slew the dragon, but no historian was certain
   where he came from. He was, anyhow, not an Englishman. The
   nearest approach the United States has to having a patron saint
   was George Washington, said Mr. Bryce, and he was born a British
   subject.--The New York _Times_.

    (2821)


   =Saloon as a Hindrance to Aspiration=--See CHANCE FOR THE BOY.


                            SALOON EFFECTS

   Irving Grinell, of the Church Temperance Society, tells a story
   of a woman who entered a barroom and advanced quietly to her
   husband, who sat drinking with three other men. She placed a
   covered dish on the table and said, “Thinkin’ ye’d be too busy
   to come home to supper, Jack, I’ve fetched it to ye here.” She
   departed, and the man laughed awkwardly. He invited his friends
   to share the meal with him. Then he removed the cover from the
   dish. The dish was empty except for the slip of paper that read:
   “Here’s hopin’ ye’ll enjoy yer supper. It’s the same as yer wife
   and bairns have at home.”

    (2822)


                         SALOON, FIGHTING THE

   The people have suffered too much from the saloon to make
   concessions and adopt the gentle way of trying to smooth
   down the tiger’s back. They will insist on using Roosevelt’s
   way with fierce African lions. Wise was that man who, being
   remonstrated with for prodding the attacking bulldog with the
   tines of a pitchfork, and asked why he didn’t use the other end,
   indignantly inquired, “Why didn’t he come at me, then, with the
   other end?”

    (2823)


                          SALOONS, BADNESS OF

It is a hopeful sign when the daily press begins to moralize on saloons
after the manner of the Sioux Falls _Press_ in the following
extract:

   A saloon is a saloon, in whatever light you view it, and if
   it all were scuttled and launched upon some limitless and
   bottomless lake, not a tear would trickle down our cheeks. A
   better saloon? You might as well talk of a better rotten egg,
   a better highway robber, a better thief, a better yeggman,
   a better bum, a better gambler, a better case of measles,
   typhoid-fever, smallpox, erysipelas, a better Five Points, a
   better place for the committing of murder, robbery, or any other
   shameless crime.

    (2824)

   See DRINK; DRUNKENNESS; INTEMPERANCE; TEMPERANCE.


                              SALVABILITY

Every man, even the worst, has some vital point at which he can be
touched and helped, as was the paralytic mentioned below:

   Dr. Swithinbank describes a real case of bodily paralysis in
   a medical record in Paris: A man was attacked by a creeping
   paralysis; sight was first to fail; soon after, hearing went;
   then by degrees, taste, smell, touch, and the power of motion.
   He could breathe, he could swallow, he could think, and strange
   to say, he could speak; that was all. Not the very slightest
   message from without could reach his mind; nothing to tell him
   what was near, who was still alive; the world was utterly lost
   to him, and he all but lost to the world. At last, one day, an
   accident showed that one small place on one cheek had feeling
   left. It seemed a revelation from heaven. By tracing letters on
   that place, his wife and children could speak to him, his dark
   dungeon-wall was pierced, his tongue had never lost its power,
   and once more he was a man among men.

    (2825)


   =Salvation a Gift=--See GRACE NOT GROWTH.


                      SALVATION BY EVANGELIZATION

   During the forty years between 1778 and 1818, the population
   had decreased from 400,000 to 150,000--nearly two-thirds; so
   that the Christian enterprise which evangelized the Hawaiians
   saved a nation from extinction, for in twenty years more, at the
   same rate of decrease, the Hawaiian Islands would have been an
   uninhabited waste.--PIERSON, “The Miracles of Missions.”

    (2826)


                          SALVATION FROM SIN

In speaking once of his religious life, Captain Mahan, of the United
States Navy, had this to say:

   I happened one week-day in Lent into a church in Boston. The
   preacher--I have never known his name--interested me throughout;
   but one phrase only has remained: “Thou shalt call his name
   Jesus, for He shall save His people”--here he lifted up his
   hands--“not from hell, but from their sins.” Almost the first
   words of the gospel! I had seen them for years, but at last I
   perceived them. Scales seemed to fall from my eyes, and I began
   to see Jesus and life as I had never seen them before.

    (2827)


   =Salvation, Half Way=--See SIGHT, IMPERFECT.


                               SAMPLING

This story used to be told by Mr. Spurgeon:

   An American gentleman said to a friend, “I wish you would come
   down to my garden, and taste my apples.” He asked him about
   a dozen times, but the friend did not come; and at last the
   fruit-grower said, “I suppose you think my apples are good for
   nothing, so you won’t come and try them.” “Well, to tell the
   truth,” said his friend, “I have tasted them. As I went along
   the road I picked one up that fell over the wall, and I never
   tasted anything so sour in all my life; I do not particularly
   wish to have any more of your fruit.” “Oh,” said the owner of
   the garden, “I thought it must be so. Those apples around the
   outside are for the special benefit of the boys. I went fifty
   miles to select the sourest sorts to plant all around the
   orchard, so the boys might give them up as not worth stealing;
   but if you will come inside, you will find that we grow a very
   different quality there, sweet as honey.”

    (2828)


   =Sandals=--See BIBLE CUSTOMS TO-DAY.


   =Sanity is Social=--See CONCERT, LACK OF.


   =Satan, Defeating=--See MASTERY BY INTELLIGENCE.


   =Satanic Possession=--See DIABOLICAL POSSESSION.


                                SATIRE

   Satire--that is, a literary work which searches out the faults
   of men or institutions in order to hold them up to ridicule--is
   at best a destructive kind of criticism. A satirist is like a
   laborer who clears away the ruins and rubbish of an old house
   before the architect and builders begin on a new and beautiful
   structure. The work may sometimes be necessary, but it rarely
   arouses our enthusiasm. While the satires of Pope, Swift, and
   Addison are doubtless the best in our language, we hardly place
   them with our great literature, which is always constructive
   in spirit; and we have the feeling that all these men were
   capable of better things than they ever wrote.--WILLIAM J.
   LONG, “English Literature.”

    (2829)


                         SAVAGES AT OUR DOORS

   Less than three thousand miles from the city of New York,
   and about a third of that distance from San Francisco, there
   is situated, in the upper reaches of the Gulf of California,
   a small island, worthless even for so mean a purpose as the
   raising of goats, but nevertheless a center of attraction for
   the ethnologists and archeologists of the Old and New Worlds for
   many generations. This rock peak, rising from the quiet waters
   of the gulf, is known as Tiburon Island. Tiburon is a Spanish
   word which, translated into English means “shark.” The waters
   around the islet are literally swarming with these tigers of the
   sea, and the inhabitants of the island are said to be no less
   ferocious than the sharks. Tiburon is peopled with a handful of
   Indians, the only aborigines of their kind in the world, known
   as Seris. They are reputed to be cannibals, to be so fierce that
   none of the mainland tribes of Mexican redskins ever dare invade
   their shores, and to possess the secret of manufacture of a
   peculiarly deadly poison, with which they prepare their arrows
   before battle.--_Wide World Magazine._

    (2830)


                           SAVED AS BY FIRE

Rev. C. H. Spurgeon used to tell this story:

   A woman in Scotland, who was determined not to have anything to
   do with religion, threw her Bible and all the tracts she could
   find into the fire. One tract fell out of the flames, so she
   thrust it in again. A second time it slipt down, and once more
   she put it back. Again her evil intention was frustrated, but a
   third effort was more successful, tho even then only half of it
   was consumed. Taking up this half, she exclaimed, “Surely the
   devil is in that tract, for it won’t burn.”

   Her curiosity being excited, she began to read it, and it was
   the means of her conversion. It was one of the sermons published
   in “The Metropolitan Tabernacle Pulpit.” (Text.)

    (2831)


                           SAVED IN SERVICE

The value of discipline to develop the soul is pointed out in this
verse by Charles C. Earle:

    Forbid for me an easy place,
    O God, in some sequestered nook
            Apart to lie,
    To doze and dream and weaker grow,
            Until I die.

    Give me, O Lord, a task so hard,
    That all my powers shall taxéd be
            To do my best,
    That I may stronger grow in toil,
    For harder service fitted be,
            Until I rest.

    This my reward--development
    From what I am to what Thou art.
            For this I plead;
    Wrought out, by being wrought upon,
    By deeds reflexive, done in love,
            For those in need.

    (2832)


   =Saving=--See DISCOVERY, BENEFITS FROM.


   =Saving by Good Habits=--See RESOLUTIONS, GOOD.


                          SAVING DISAPPROVED

   Down with the little toy savings-bank! I believe it teaches
   children to be selfish. I hate to see a child, a sweet, innocent
   child, with dimpled hands and a laughing face, clutch the penny
   or the nickel you give it close in its little fingers, and run
   first to drop it into the greedy, miserly “savings-bank,” and
   then come back to thank you. We teach the child to be selfish
   when we give it a penny to drop in the missionary-box and fifty
   cents to buy a toy for itself; to dole out a penny a week for
   charity and keep the savings-bank rattling full. But haven’t I a
   savings-bank in my home? Indeed I have; and I’d like to see you
   or any other man, except one of my dear friends the Vanderbilts,
   pour money into the top of that savings bank as fast as the
   prince can draw it out of the bottom. That’s the way to run
   a bank. Make her useful; milk her. “Mr. Speaker,” said the
   California legislator, “may I ask how much money there is in the
   State treasury?” The speaker estimated about $40,000. “Then,”
   said the member, “I move to rake her. What good does the money
   do locked up? If you don’t spend it, some alderman will get hold
   of it.”--ROBERT BURDETTE.

    (2833)


   =Saving Life=--See LIFE-SAVING BY WIRELESS.


   =Savings of Aliens=--See PROSPERITY AS AN ADVERTISEMENT.


   =Saviors=--See PERSONALITY AS A REDEMPTIVE FORCE.


                          SCARS OF WAR HEALED

   To-day the shells and fragments used in the war between Russia
   and Japan are to be found only in the junk-shops of Port Arthur,
   and crops of vegetables and millet mantle with living green some
   of the fort-hills where desolation and death reigned during the
   five months of the siege.

   The bloodstains and the gruesome dis-coloring of the soil
   around the edges of some of the shallow, overcrowded graves
   have disappeared. There was no trace left of the largest blood
   blotch, a dreadful black smut twenty feet by four or five feet
   on the side of 203-Meter Hill, which was in evidence for many
   months after the last fighting. God’s healing rains have washed
   the hill clean and are filling in and covering with the green
   of His love the trenches and other scars left by man’s lust and
   hate. (Text.)

    (2834)


   =Scavengers=--See IMMUNITY FROM DISEASE.


   =School versus Saloon=--See CHANCE FOR THE BOY.


   =Science a Benefactor=--See EXTERMINATION.


   =Science and Health=--See HEALTH AND SCIENCE.


   =Science and Religion=--See SELF-SACRIFICE IN NATURE.


   =Science and Saving=--See DISCOVERY, BENEFITS FROM.


                         SCIENCE, DEVOTION TO

   When Augustine Thierry, having withdrawn himself from the world
   and retired to his library, to investigate the origin, the
   causes and the effects, of the early and successive Germanic
   invasions, and, having passed six years “in poring with the
   pertinacity of a Benedictine monk over worm-eaten manuscripts,
   and deciphering and comparing black-letter texts,” had at
   last completed his magnificent “History of the Conquest,” the
   publication of which introduced a new era in French historical
   composition, he had lost his sight. The most precious of the
   senses had been sacrificed to his zeal in literary research.
   The beauties of nature, and the records of scholarship were
   thenceforth shut from him, and other eyes, to assist his future
   efforts. Prodigious sacrifice! And yet not such he thought it;
   for he said long afterward, in a letter to a friend: “Were I
   to begin my life over again, I would choose the road that has
   conducted me to where I now am. Blind and afflicted, without
   hope and without leisure, I can safely offer this testimony, the
   sincerity of which, coming from a man in my condition, can not
   be called in question. There is something in this world worth
   more than pleasure, more than fortune, more than health itself;
   I mean devotion to science!” (Text.)--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (2835)


   =Science Exposes Fraud=--See LIAR EXPOSED.


                       SCIENCE, IMPROVEMENTS BY

   “The inferiority of the human sense organ to the instruments of
   science is pointed out by Dr. Carl Snyder,” says _The American
   Inventor_. “He says that whereas the human eye can see but
   little more than 3,000 stars in the heaven on the clearest of
   nights, the photographic plate and the telescope can discover
   countless millions. It is difficult for the eye to distinguish
   divisions of the inch if smaller than 1-200 of that unit of
   measure, yet a powerful microscope will make an object 1-1,000
   of an inch in diameter look comparatively large. It would be
   a delicate ear which could hear the tramp of a fly, yet the
   microphone magnifies this sound until it sounds like the tramp
   of cavalry. The most sensitive skin can not detect a change in
   temperature less than 1-5 of a degree, but the bolometer will
   register on a scale an increase or decrease of temperature of
   1-1,000,000 of a degree and can easily note the difference in
   temperature caused in a room when a match is lighted one mile
   away.”

    (2836)


                       SCIENCE PREVENTING CRIME

   Manufacturers of safes will be impelled to fight the scientific
   burglar with his own weapons. In somewhat the same fashion
   by which time-locks prevent the opening of the lock of a
   safe during certain hours, it will be comparatively easy to
   introduce into safe-construction chemico-mechanical devices
   which, during a limited time, would render it either fatal or
   physically impossible to remain in the vicinity of a safe or
   vault, were the walls or doors tampered with to such an extent
   as to allow access to the interior. By use of a very simple form
   of apparatus containing potassium cyanid and sulfuric acid, a
   robber would expose himself to the deadly fumes of prussic acid.

   Less dangerous, through possibilities of accident to
   those regularly using a safe, would be the employment of
   substances crippling a safe-blower or forcing him to an
   instantaneous retreat. The volatilization of a few drops of
   ethyl-dichlor-acetate would cause such profuse and persistent
   weeping that one in the neighborhood would be temporarily
   blinded if he persisted in remaining. The breaking of a tube
   of liquid ammonia would render immediate withdrawal imperative
   under peril of suffocation.--THOMAS H. NORTON,
   _Machinery_.

    (2837)


                   SCIENCE SHATTERING SUPERSTITIONS

   There are large numbers of people perpetually bemoaning our
   degeneracy, and sighing over the departure of the “good old
   times” of our early American life. The reason of the present
   distressing state of affairs I heard explained not long ago. One
   man thought it was because all the “good old doctrines” were
   nowadays not preached at all, and the other was equally sure
   that it was because they were preached all the time. Never was a
   grander fallacy than this whole idea. Never was more ignorance
   of the past displayed than by those who talk of the falling
   away of modern times. Never was the Church so bright and fair
   as now, and never did the sky of the future redden with a more
   glorious promise of the coming day. In those “good old times”
   men lived under the horrid shadows of frightful superstitions.
   Now it is to modern science only that we owe our emancipation
   from the yoke of this awful tyranny. Scientific explorers have
   been over the earth; and finding no mouth of hell, that is gone.
   Science has explained earthquakes and volcanoes, and now devils
   fight no longer in the bowels of the earth. Etna and Vesuvius
   are no longer vent-holes of the pit. Astronomy has shattered
   the follies of astrology; and people have found out that the
   stars are minding their own business instead of meddling with
   theirs, and eclipses are no longer moon-swallowing monsters--are
   only very natural and well behaved shadows. Since psychology
   is studied we know that witchcraft is folly, and insanity only
   a disease to be treated and cured. Thus science--like a mother
   going up-stairs to bed with her frightened boy--has been with
   her candle into all the old dark corners that used to make
   us creep, and cringe, and shiver with terror.--MINOT J.
   SAVAGE, _The Arena_.

    (2838)


                         SCIENCE TRAINS TO SEE

   Where the untrained eye will see nothing but mire and dirt
   (says Sir John Lubbock), science will often reveal exquisite
   possibilities. The mud we tread under our feet in the street
   is a grimy mixture of clay and sand, soot and water. Separate
   the sand, however, as Ruskin observes--let the atoms arrange
   themselves in peace according to their nature--and you have
   the opal. Separate the clay and it becomes a white earth, for
   the finest porcelain; or if it still further purifies itself
   you have a sapphire. Take the soot, and if properly treated it
   will give you a diamond. While, lastly, the water purified and
   distilled, will become a dew-drop or crystallize into a lovely
   star. Or, again, you may see in a shallow pool either the mud
   lying at the bottom or the image of the sky above.--_Public
   Opinion._

    (2839)


   =Scripture=--See CONSCIENCE.


   =Scripture and Experience=--See INTERPRETATION BY EXPERIENCE.


                      SCRIPTURE FOR ALL OCCASIONS

   If you have the blues read the Twenty-seventh Psalm.

   If your pocketbook is empty read the Thirty-seventh Psalm.

   If people seem unkind, 1 John 4.

   If you are discouraged about your work, 126th Psalm.

   If you are all out of sorts, twelfth chapter Hebrews.

   If you are losing confidence in men, thirteenth chapter, 1
   Corinthians.

   If you can not have your own way about everything, James 3.

   If you are anxious, Matthew 6.--Honolulu _Times_.

    (2840)


   =Scruples, Hindering=--See ACTION, INSTANT.


                           SCRUPLES, MINUTE

   Roger North gives an instance of the lawyer’s absurd attachment
   to mere forms. In his days the Court of Common Pleas used to
   sit in Westminster Hall, close to the great door, in order
   that suitors and their train might readily pass in and out.
   When the wind was in the north, this situation was found very
   cold, and it was proposed to move the court farther back, to a
   warmer place. “But the Lord Chief Justice Bridgman,” says North,
   “would not agree to it, as it was against Magna Charta, which
   says that the Common Pleas shall be held _in certo loco_
   (in a certain place), with which the distance of an inch from
   that place is inconsistent, and all the pleas would be _coram
   non judice_ (before one who is not the proper judge).”
   (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (2841)


   =Sea Helping the Land=--See EVIDENCE, PROVIDENTIAL.


   =Sea, The=--See SOLACE OF THE SEA.


   =Sea, The, As a Land Grabber=--See MUTATION.


   =Sea, Wealth of the=--See OPPORTUNITY LOST.


   =Seaman, A Struggling=--See COOLNESS IN DANGER.


                              SEASICKNESS

   The ship upon clearing the harbor ran into a half-pitching,
   half-rolling sea that became particularly noticeable about the
   time the twenty-five passengers at the captain’s table sat down
   to dinner.

   “I hope that all twenty-five of you will have a pleasant trip,”
   the captain told them as the soup appeared, “and that this
   little assembly of twenty-four will reach port much benefited by
   the voyage. I look upon these twenty-two smiling faces much as a
   father does upon his family, for I am responsible for the safety
   of this group of seventeen. I hope that all fourteen of you
   will join me later in drinking to a merry trip. I believe that
   we eight fellow passengers are most congenial, and I applaud
   the judgment which chose from the passenger-list these three
   persons for my table. You and I, my dear sir, er--here, steward!
   Bring on the fish and clear away these dishes.”--_National
   Monthly._

    (2842)


   =Searching Christ, The=--See CHRIST, THE SEARCHING.


   =Seaweed, The Value of=--See UTILIZING SEAWEED.


                         SEARCHING FOR VALUES

   As we behold men going up and down the corn-fields of history,
   they are plucking the ears of corn as they journey. What are you
   reaching after with those long mental fingers, O Shakespeare?
   “I’ve seen how the corn of human nature grows upon the stalk of
   life, and I’m plucking at the heart of this mystery.” What are
   those great hands grasping after, O Beethoven? “I’m dreaming of
   unblended harmonies my deaf ears have never heard, and these
   hands are trying to pluck them from out the invisible realms of
   harmony.” Why run those hands up into the sleeve of darkness, O
   Milton? They seem to be straining after something. “Worlds of
   light lie behind these dead eyes of mine. I’ve seen an angel
   and heard him sing, and these hands are fumbling about in the
   darkness hunting for words to tell about his song.” What are
   those majestic hands reaching after, O Angelo? “I need a few
   bars of light, a few bursts of morning, a few scraps of sunset,
   to show men how God paints pictures. I’m plucking the golden
   ears of color from nature’s garden to hang up in a picture
   gallery.”--F. F. SHANNON.

    (2843)


                             SEARCH-LIGHTS

Moral and spiritual search-lights are needed to warn and illuminate the
soul, just as the search-lights noted here are used to help the mariner
as he approaches land.

   “It has been announced,” says _The Electrical Review_,
   “that one of the features of the Lewis & Clark exposition
   will be a large search-light surmounting Mount Hood. This
   will be used to good effect for illuminating the snow-capped
   mountain-peaks within one hundred miles of the light. It is
   also said that the beam thrown from this search-light will
   be visible to vessels one hundred miles off the coast. This
   statement suggests that the search-light might be used as a
   valuable aid in lighthouse service, for warning vessels when
   they are approaching land. The ordinary range of visibility
   of a lighthouse is about twenty or twenty-five miles. For a
   lightship it is somewhat less, as the light is lower. Now, a
   powerful search-light can throw a beam upward which will be
   seen thirty or forty miles, under favorable conditions. It is
   probable that a powerful ray thrown vertically upward from a
   lighthouse would be visible long before the direct rays of the
   lighthouse could be seen. A somewhat similar scheme has been
   tried on railroads, where a beam from the electric headlight of
   a locomotive was thrown upward as a warning to the engineers of
   other locomotives.”

    (2844)


   =Seasons Estimated=--See COMPENSATION.


                           SEASONS, VALUE OF

   All our States have laws which prohibit the hunting of game at
   certain times specified and by given methods. The greater part
   of the year is close time for shooting most kinds of animals and
   birds. The wild beasts which are to be followed for sport need
   opportunity to increase and grow, and if left to the whim of
   individuals would be exterminated. As there are prohibitions to
   prevent the extinction of the young animals, so there needs to
   be a close time on character, when we do not allow ourselves to
   indulge in things which excite our nerves and draw our strength
   from our bodies and minds. We check our reading, and are careful
   of sleep and food and exercise.--“Monday Club, Sermons on the
   International Sunday-school Lessons for 1904.”

    (2845)


   =Second Thought=--See REPENTANCE.


   =Secrecy in Sin=--See HYPOCRISY.


   =Secret Service Disclosures=--See CRIMINALS, TRACING.


                             SECRET THINGS

   An ancient philosopher, it is said, was accustomed to go about
   carrying a parcel covered with a napkin. To all inquiries as
   to the contents of the parcel his answer was: “Wherefore the
   napkin?” meaning that there are some things God has not been
   pleased to reveal to men. (Text.)

    (2846)


   =Secret Unpurchasable=--See KINDNESS, THE POWER OF.


                                SECRETS

Sir Joshua Reynolds, like Wilson, had his secrets of color and his
mysteries of painting. He was fond of endeavoring to discover the
secrets of the old painters.

   It was his wont to dissect some of their works in order to
   find out their art of coloring and finishing. He pursued his
   experiments secretly and kept his discoveries to himself. In
   this search for the hidden secrets of his art he destroyed many
   old paintings of the Venetian school to the serious loss of the
   world of art. (Text.)

    (2847)


   =Secrets Will Out=--See UTTERANCE.


   =Securities=--See PRECAUTIONS.


                               SECURITY

The soul is secure that stands on the Rock of Ages.

   A man was sent out on a rocky promontory in Scotland where
   his signals might help a ship working its way in through the
   difficult channel in a great storm. Great waves beat upon
   that promontory and their spray wet the flagman to the skin,
   but he stood his dangerous ground and signaled the ship in.
   After she was in some one asked him if he did not tremble as
   he stood out there. He answered: “My legs trembled, but the
   rock didn’t tremble. I never knew before how solid that rock
   was.”--FRANKLIN NOBLE, “Sermons in Illustration.”

    (2848)


                           SEEING ALL AROUND

We would find it a great advantage in life if our mental apprehension
was capable of including the entire horizon as the insect mentioned
below is able to see in all directions.

   A boy is often easily surprized by a playmate who approaches him
   stealthily from behind, but did you ever try the same game with
   a butterfly? I have, many a time. After getting cautiously so
   near to a butterfly at rest as to be able to distinguish between
   its head and its hinder extremity, I have quietly circled round
   it so as to approach it from behind, being at the time under the
   impression that it wouldn’t see me under those circumstances.
   But not the slightest advantage did I derive from this
   stratagem, for the position and construction of its eyes enabled
   it to see almost all ways at once.--W. FURNEAUX,
   “Butterflies and Moths.”

    (2849)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Many insects have a great number of eyes, because the orb of the
   eye is fixt; there is, therefore, placed over the eye a multiple
   lens which conducts light to the eye from every direction; so
   that the insect can see with a fixt eye as readily as it could
   have done with a movable one. As many as 1,400 eyes, or inlets
   of light, have been counted in the head of a drone bee. The
   spider has eight eyes, mounted on different parts of the head;
   two in front, two in the top of the head, and two on each side.

One mark of the well-balanced man is the ability to see in all
directions.

    (2850)


                          SEEING, THE ART OF

   I once spent a summer day at the mountain home of a well-known
   literary woman and editor. She lamented the absence of birds
   about her house. I named a half-dozen or more I had heard in
   her trees within an hour--the indigo-bird, the purple finch,
   the yellow-bird, the veery thrush, the red-eyed vireo, the song
   sparrow.

   “Do you mean to say you have seen or heard all these birds while
   sitting here on my porch?” she inquired.

   “I really have,” I said.

   “I do not see them or hear them,” she said, “and yet I want to
   very much.”

   “No,” said I; “you only want to want to see and hear them.”

   You must have the bird in your heart before you can find it in
   the bush. (Text.)--JOHN BURROUGHS, “Leaf and Tendril.”

    (2851)


                          SEEKING AND FINDING

   Tho the inventors have busied their brains for almost a
   century in an effort to find a substitute for wood pulp in the
   production of paper, their efforts hitherto met with failure.
   Recently an industrial concern has issued its prospectus,
   printed upon paper manufactured from cornstalks in its
   experimental plant. The paper is of good quality and proves the
   availability of cornstalks for this purpose.

   An earnest search for that which will benefit humanity will
   sooner or later be rewarded with success. (Text.)

    (2852)


                            SEEKING SERVICE

   I have a wealthy friend in Paris who is spending his money not
   very wisely, but not very wickedly. Some of his acquaintances
   suggested to him that it would help him socially and give him
   more prestige, if he could go to America and induce President
   Roosevelt to appoint him as a member of our American embassy in
   Paris. So he came to Washington and went to see the President,
   who very kindly granted him an audience. He spoke the little
   speech that he had prepared to give, beginning by saying, “I
   think that I could serve my country, perhaps, if I should have
   this appointment in Paris.” President Roosevelt spoke right up,
   as he is apt to do and said: “My young friend, a man desiring
   to serve his country does not begin by saying where he is going
   to serve.”--CHARLES R. ERDMAN, “Student Volunteer
   Movement,” 1906.

    (2853)


                               SELECTION

The world is much what we make it.

   The “man with the muckrake” hated his work, and with good
   reason. “How sweet is the smell of those pine boards!” said
   a lady to her friend as they were walking near the river in
   Chicago. “Pine boards,” he exclaimed; “just smell that foul
   river!” “No, thank you,” she answered, “I prefer to smell pine
   boards.”--FRANKLIN NOBLE, “Sermons in Illustration.”

    (2854)


                         SELECTION BY PURPOSE

   Some years ago a cotton-planter in Georgia observed that the
   leaves on one of his plants was unlike the usual leaf; it was
   divided as if into fingers. So far nature had gone. The planter
   added his intelligence. He concluded that such a divided leaf
   would let in more sunshine on the cotton; also such a leaf would
   not be comfortable for caterpillars. So he searched out one or
   two of these peculiar plants, transplanted them to a field by
   themselves. As they propagated, he plucked up those with the old
   leaf, cultivated those with the new, and now these new cotton
   plants, finer than the old, free from caterpillars, are spread
   through many regions. That is human selection, based on natural
   selection, securing the fruits of evolution. It is just as
   applicable to man as to vegetation. A better man may be bred as
   well as a better kind of cotton.--MONCURE D. CONWAY,
   The Monist.

    (2855)


   =Selection Justified=--See TRIUMPH BY SELECTION.


   =Self-abnegation=--See MODESTY.


                              SELF-BLAME

A story of Henry Ward Beecher is told in _Christian Work_.

   Mr. Beecher had been addressing an association of Congregational
   ministers somewhere in New York State, and when he had finished
   his address he said he would be glad to answer any questions if
   any of the younger brethren had anything that perplexed them.
   Immediately, a young clergyman arose and said, “Mr. Beecher,
   we have in our little church at ---- a very estimable man, but
   the moment I begin preaching he falls asleep and snores, so he
   disturbs the whole congregation and absolutely spoils the effect
   of the sermon. But he is the only rich man we have, and he is
   the main support of the church, and we dare not say anything
   to him for fear we might offend him. Now, what would you do in
   such a case as that?” Mr. Beecher admitted it was a puzzling
   situation, and then he said: “We get around it in Plymouth
   Church in this way: I give my sexton orders to keep close watch
   of the congregation, and the moment he sees any man asleep to go
   right up and slap me on the back.”

    (2856)


                             SELF-CENTERED

The Rev. C. A. S. Dwight, in an article on “Timing the Sun,” writes as
follows:

   There is a story of a punctilious Yankee who was fond of
   boasting that his watch had never been slow or fast for forty
   years. One morning he rose to see the sun rise. He kept looking
   at his wonderful watch and consulting at the same time a
   farmers’ almanac. There was a pause in the dawn. The Yankee grew
   impatient. Tapping his watch, he exclaimed: “If that sun ain’t
   over the hill in a minute and a half he’ll be late!”

   Some men have “views” which they have carefully carried with
   them for years, as that Yankee did his watch. If events do not
   square with their views, so much the worse for the events. All
   such measurings of the eternal by the local tests of human
   opinion or of conventional standards is vain. The sun knows what
   he is about. It is the part of wisdom to correct one’s timepiece
   by the sun and not to try to run unassisted the astronomical
   machinery of the whole universe.

    (2857)


                            SELF-CONFIDENCE

   When the little Corsican, Napoleon Bonaparte, a feeble youth
   at the beginning of his wonderful career, was presented to the
   convention of France as the man who could rescue the country
   from its peril, the president fixt his eye upon him dubiously
   and said: “Are you willing to undertake our defense?” “Yes,”
   was the calm and confident reply. “But are you aware of the
   magnitude of the undertaking?” asked the president again.
   “Fully,” said Napoleon, fixing his piercing eye upon the
   questioner, adding, “and I am in the habit of accomplishing that
   which I undertake.”

A similar self-confidence has often proved the one great secret of a
successful career.

    (2858)

       *       *       *       *       *

   As Napoleon was contemplating one of his great campaigns, his
   uncle, Cardinal Fesch, was dissuading him. Napoleon opened the
   window, pointed and said:

   “Do you see that star?”

   Cardinal Fesch said: “No; I see no star.”

   Napoleon turned his back upon him and said: “But I see it.”

   To see your star whether other men see it or not, whether other
   men believe in it or not; to believe in yourself--that may be to
   discover that hidden self that is nobler than you have ever been.

    (2859)

       *       *       *       *       *

   At one time, skilled artist tho he was, Constable was curiously
   ready to make alterations in his pictures to please persons of
   very little judgment in the case. At last, however, he rebelled.
   He was finishing his famous picture “The Dell,” when he was
   beset by an adviser: “Don’t you see,” retorted Constable, “that
   I might go on and make this picture so good that it would be
   good for nothing.” Being asked on another occasion if a certain
   picture on the easel was painted for any particular person, he
   replied: “Yes, sir; it is painted for a very particular person,
   the person for whom I have all my life painted.” (Text.)

    (2860)


                       SELF-CONFIDENCE MISPLACED

In a current magazine we find the following:

   Some years ago an attorney was called in by a large company and
   handed a lease.

   “Give us your opinion,” said the president. “We have a great
   deal of this sort of legal business, and it is only fair to say
   that your opinion may mean much to us and to yourself.”

   The lawyer went through the document with some care, but
   quickly, and on the spot.

   “This is one of the best-drawn leases I have ever examined,” he
   said heartily. “You are wise to handle such matters inside your
   own organization. I commend your business judgment.”

   “Can you suggest any improvements?”

   “None whatever,” declared the lawyer.

   “Can you discern any flaws?”

   “No--emphatically! Mr. Johns,” continued the attorney, turning
   to the president’s assistant, “I want to congratulate you, as a
   lawyer, upon your thorough grasp of this most difficult branch.
   In my opinion this instrument is unassailable. It will hold in
   the highest court in this State.”

   “That is what we want--your honest opinion,” said the president.
   “You have given it, and we are much obliged to you, and shall
   be pleased to have a bill for your service. My dear sir, the
   highest court in the State declared this lease null and void
   last week, and we have lost a ten-thousand-dollar suit upon it!”

Both the business man who drew the lease and the lawyer who approved
it were mistaken. They believed in themselves, but a higher tribunal
showed their fallibility.

    (2861)


                             SELF-CONFLICT

   A friend once asked an aged man what caused him to complain so
   often at eventide of pain and weariness. “Alas,” replied he, “I
   have every day so much to do. I have two falcons to tame, two
   hares to keep from running away, two hawks to manage, a serpent
   to confine, a lion to chain and a sick man to tend and wait
   upon.”

   “Well, well,” commented his friend, “you are busy, indeed! But I
   didn’t know that you had anything to do with a menagerie. How,
   then, do you make that out?”

   “Why,” continued the old man, “listen. Two falcons are my
   eyes, which I must guard diligently; the two hares are my
   feet, which I must keep from walking in the ways of sin; the
   two hawks are my hands, which I must train to work, that I may
   provide for myself and those dependent on me as well as for a
   needy friend occasionally; the serpent is my tongue, which I
   must keep ever bridled lest it speak unseemly; the lion is my
   heart, with which I have a continual fight lest evil things come
   out of it, and the sick man is my whole body, which is always
   needing my watchfulness and care. All this daily wears out my
   strength.”--Du Quoin _Tribune_.

    (2862)


   =Self-conquest=--See VICTORY IN DEFEAT.


                          SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS

   Some young Christians are timid and self-conscious, and can not
   help it; what is to be done then? We once knew a child who was
   so painfully bashful that anything that called attention to
   herself was a positive torture to her. So simple an act as to
   step across the aisle and hand a hymn-book made her heart beat
   wildly. Then one day she saw a report of an organization which
   was called “A Bridge from the Island of Supply to the Island of
   Want.” Her mother, who saw that her little girl’s usefulness in
   life would be greatly curtailed if she yielded to her foolish
   fear, talked to her seriously and said: “Don’t think of yourself
   as yourself, but think of yourself as God’s bridge. Whenever
   He gives you an opportunity to do anything that would help any
   one, or a thought that would make any one happy for you to tell
   it, just say, ‘Now, I’m not anybody in myself; I’m just God’s
   bridge, and I must let Him pass over me to this service.’ If you
   see the need and have the supply, no matter what it is, then
   you are God’s bridge, and you must be a strong bridge so that
   His path may not be broken.” She soon learned to forget all
   about herself in her own personality, and forgetting herself,
   forgot her fear. (Text.)--MAY F. MCKEAN, _Zion’s
   Advocate_.

    (2863)


                             SELF-CONTROL

The name of Charles E. Hughes, Governor of New York, is deservedly held
in esteem for the many admirable qualities of character possest. That
the child is father to the man is shown in this incident which exhibits
an unusual power of self-control in one so young.

   For five years, until his tenth year, he studied at home. His
   mother taught him the primary studies, as well as French,
   German, and mathematics; his father, Greek and Latin. That
   mastery of self which Mr. Hughes afterward manifested he also
   taught himself as a child. He always recited his lessons
   standing, and, like most children, had at first considerable
   difficulty in keeping still. He evidently thought the thing
   all out for himself; and one day, with no suggestion from his
   mother, who was then hearing his lessons, he announced that he
   had found a method of controlling his rebellious members. He
   selected a seam in the carpet, placed his toes firmly against
   it, shut his heels tightly together, and assumed a determined,
   soldierlike pose. From that day Mr. Hughes has had entire
   command of himself. (Text.)

    (2864)


   =Self-deception=--See FACTS, IGNORING.


                            SELF-DEPENDENCE

    By thine own soul’s law learn to live;
      And if men thwart thee, take no heed;
    And if men hate thee, have no care--
      Sing thou thy song, and do thy deed;
    Hope thou thy hope, and pray thy prayer,
      And claim no crown they will not give.

    --JOHN G. WHITTIER.

    (2865)


                           SELF-DEPRECIATION

   When Deacon Hotchkiss bought Brother Bemis’ yearling heifer he
   demanded a guarantee of the animal’s condition, and he asked
   Brother Bemis to swear to that guarantee before the justice
   of peace. Brother Bemis was hurt by this unusual precaution
   on the part of a lifelong friend and neighbor. “Why, Brother
   Hotchkiss,” he remonstrated, “you ain’t no need to be so pesky
   s’picious with me. I ain’t never cheated you, hev I? You wa’nt
   like this never before.” “I wa’nt--I wa’nt,” assented Brother
   Hotchkiss cordially, “but I hearn you t’other night when you wuz
   on the anxious seat at revival meetin’ and I sez to myself, sez
   I, ‘if Brother Bemis is half the sinner he makes himself out
   to be, it behooves me to be everlastin’ keerful with him next
   caow trade.’” Which goes to show that a man is more likely to be
   taken at his own estimate of himself when he puts that estimate
   low than when he puts it high; and that it is not overwise in
   a man to make estimate of himself in time of excitement and a
   place of publicity. (Text.)--_Puck._

    (2866)


                             SELF-DISPLAY

Many men embrace the most trivial opportunities to attract attention to
themselves, with far less reason than the great actor in this incident
recorded in _Scribner’s Magazine_:

   Nothing else he ever did equaled Mansfield’s recital of his
   experience the night he condescended to the plebeian rôle of a
   waiter and wore an apron. His whole “business” was to draw a
   cork, but he took pains to drive that cork home before coming
   on the stage. When his cue came to draw the cork he tugged
   and tugged in vain. His face grew scarlet and perspiration
   dropt from his forehead. Then he handed the bottle to another
   waiter, who struggled with all his strength without budging the
   cork. Mansfield turned a deaf ear to the voices in the wings
   shouting for him to leave the stage. He took the bottle back
   again and with renewed effort finally dislodged the cork. The
   insignificant pop it gave after those Titanic efforts again
   brought down the house.

    (2867)


                            SELF-EFFACEMENT

   Was Rafael, think you, when he painted his pictures of the
   Virgin and Child in all their inconceivable truth and beauty of
   expression, thinking most of his subject or of himself? Do you
   suppose that Titian, when he painted a landscape, was pluming
   himself on being thought the finest colorist in the world, or
   making himself so by looking at nature? Do you imagine that
   Shakespeare, when he wrote “Lear” or “Othello,” was thinking of
   anything but “Lear” and “Othello”? Or that Mr. Kean, when he
   plays these characters, is thinking of the audience? No; he who
   would be great in the eyes of others, must first learn to be
   nothing in his own. (Text.)--WILLIAM HAZLITT.

    (2868)


                              SELF-ESTEEM

We may be properly independent of the patronage of royalty, but this
independence need not take the form of rudeness as with the musician in
these incidents:

   Liszt refused to play at court of Queen Isabella in Spain
   because the court etiquette forbade the introduction of
   musicians to royalty. In his opinion even crowned heads owed a
   certain deference and homage to the sovereignities of art, and
   he determined it should be paid.

   He met Czar Nicholas I, who had very little notion of the
   respect due to any one but himself, with an angry look and a
   defiant word; he tossed Frederick William IV’s diamonds into
   the side scenes, and broke a lance with Louis Philippe, which
   cost him a decoration. He never forgave that thrifty King for
   abolishing certain musical pensions and otherwise snubbing art.
   He refused on every occasion to play at the Tuilleries. One
   day the king and his suite paid a “private view” visit to a
   pianoforte exhibition of Erard’s. Liszt happened to be in the
   room, and was trying a piano just as his Majesty entered. The
   King advanced genially toward him and began a conversation, but
   Liszt merely bowed with a polished but icy reserve.

   “Do you still remember,” said the King, “that you played at my
   house when you were but a boy and I Duke of Orleans? Much has
   changed since then.”

   “Yes, sire,” replied Liszt dryly, “but not for the better.”

   The King showed his royal appreciation of the repartee by
   striking the great musician’s name off the list of those who
   were about to receive the Cross of the Legion of Honor.--H.
   R. HAWEIS, “My Musical Memories.”

    (2869)


                             SELF-ESTIMATE

John the Baptist said of Christ, “He must increase but I must
decrease.” Scott’s attitude toward Byron was similar.

   It is characteristic of Scott that he knew perfectly well when
   Byron began to write his day was over. He quietly said Byron had
   “bet him,” and he never sang again. Without a touch of jealousy,
   with simple manliness, Scott admitted that a greater poet than
   himself had come, and instead of waging a losing battle for his
   lost supremacy, he praised his rival, and then left the arena
   with all the honors of war. There are few men who could have
   done this. That Scott did it, and did it easily, is at once a
   proof of the sturdy manliness of his nature, and of the robust
   common sense and generosity which marked his character.--W.
   J. DAWSON, “The Makers of English Poetry.”

    (2870)

       *       *       *       *       *

That we should try to see ourselves as others see us is a rule well
illustrated by R. H. Haweis in what he says on learning to play the
violin:

   I had found means to make the flimsiest strings yield up sounds
   which I need not here characterize, and to such purpose that it
   became a question of some interest how long such sounds could be
   endured by the human ear. I do not mean my own. All violinists,
   including infants on the eighteen-penny ones, admit that to
   their own ear the sounds produced are nothing but delightful; it
   is only those who do not make them who complain.

    (2871)


   =Self-examination=--See SELF-INSPECTION.


                             SELF-FLATTERY

We are all of us susceptible to the good opinions of others, and
sometimes we are apt to fall into the bad habit of lauding ourselves.
An illustration of this is seen in the following:

   Once when Moltke heard himself compared to Cæsar, Turenne,
   Marlborough, Wellington, and others, he remarked: “No; I have
   no right to rank with such great captains, for I have never
   commanded a retreat”--which at the same time conveyed a subtle
   compliment to himself. Bismarck was equally subtle when he was
   asked whom he thought to have been the ablest plenipotentiary
   at the Congress of Berlin. “I don’t know about the ablest,” he
   replied with a grim smile, “but the next ablest was certainly
   Lord Beaconsfield.” (Text.)

    (2872)


                            SELF-FORGETTING

   The first principle of Christianity is to forget one’s self.
   When Wilberforce was straining every energy to get his bill for
   the emancipation of slaves passed, a lady once said to him, “Mr.
   Wilberforce, I’m afraid you are so busy about those slaves that
   you are neglecting your own soul.” “True, madam,” he said; “I
   had quite forgotten that I have one.” That remark contains one
   of the deepest truths of Christianity. (Text.)

    (2873)


                               SELF-HELP

   At one time in a battle between the English and French, the
   Prince of Wales became the center of the enemies’ attacks. As
   the Germans, men of Savoy, and other fierce foreigners broke
   through the royal division, a messenger was despatched in haste
   to the King, entreating his aid. The British ruler had taken his
   stand on a hill to watch the battle at a safe distance.

   The King replied, “Return to him and to them that sent you
   hither and tell them from me that they do not send to me again
   or look for my coming so long as my son shall live. Suffer him
   this day ‘to win his spurs.’”

   At the time of evening vespers, the prince had wrought a
   victory. The King, followed by his entire battalion, left the
   hill and advanced to meet the Prince of Wales. He embraced him
   and kissed him, saying, “Sweet son, God give you grace. You have
   acquitted yourself well.”

   Does not God often appear to withhold aid only that we may have
   the joy of winning victories by our own powers? (Text.)

    (2874)

       *       *       *       *       *

That self-help is the best help is illustrated by the statements of a
writer in _Health_, who says of the muscles:

   It is dangerous to assist any muscle of the body. The more a
   muscle is assisted, the weaker it gets and the less it responds
   to the motor nerves. If any part of the body is deformed or
   has become weakened as the result of certain muscles failing
   to perform their duty, the muscles should be strengthened, not
   helped. If the abdomen protrudes as the result of the abdominal
   muscles having become weak, do not support the abdomen with
   a bandage, thus making the abdominal muscles still weaker.
   Strengthen the abdominal muscles, thus making a natural bandage.
   The same is true in reference to other braces and bandages.
   Never help a muscle, for you only weaken it. Exercise the
   muscle; it will then help itself.

    (2875)


                              SELF-HIDDEN

One way to win success in work and war is to subordinate self to the
service, as the following lines suggest:

    He held the lamp of truth that day
    So low that none could miss the way;
    And yet so high to bring in sight
    That picture fair--the world’s great Light;
    That, gazing up--the lamp between--
    The hand that held it scarce was seen.

    He held the pitcher, stooping low
    To lips of little ones below;
    Then raised it to the weary saint,
    And bade him drink, when sick and faint!
    They drank--the pitcher thus between--
    The hand that held it scarce was seen.

    He blew the trumpet soft and clear,
    That trembling sinners need not fear;
    And then with louder note and bold,
    To raze the walls of Satan’s hold!
    The trumpet coming thus between,
    The hand that held it scarce was seen.

    But when the Captain says, “Well done,
    Thou good and faithful servant--come!
    Lay down the pitcher and the lamp
    Lay down the trumpet--leave the camp,”
    The weary hands will then be seen,
    Clasped in those pierced ones--naught between.(Text.)

    (2876)


   =Self-improvement=--See MUTUALISM.


   =Self-injury=--See SUICIDE PREVENTED.


                            SELF-INSPECTION

   John Wesley drew up at Oxford for himself and his companions a
   scheme of self-examination which Southey declares, with some
   truth, might well be appended to the spiritual exercises of
   Ignatius Loyola. Here are samples: “Have I been simple and
   recollected everything I did?” And under this head is a swarm
   of microscopic tests of “sincerity” which the soul was to apply
   to itself. “Have I prayed with fervor?” Then follows a list
   of the times in each day at which prayer must be offered, and
   a series of tests for ascertaining the exact degree of fervor
   in each prayer--tests which irresistibly suggest a spiritual
   thermometer, with a graduated scale to register the rise of
   the mercury. Wesley adopted the practise his mother urged of
   asking, “Have I, in private prayer, frequently stopt short and
   observed what fervor in devotion?” That is, the anxious soul
   was to keep one eye directed to the object of prayer, and the
   other vigilantly fixt upon itself, so as to observe its own
   behavior.--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (2877)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A traveler, reaching a mining camp unexpectedly, found the
   miners very rough in manners and appearance owing to their
   long absence from conventional life. On leaving the camp for
   a farther journey, the traveler handed one of the leaders a
   looking-glass. A glance at it amazed the man, and soon all the
   other miners were crowding round him for a sight of themselves.
   Then the traveler departed, promising to return in a month.
   On his return he found an extraordinary change had taken
   place. The men, having realized by the mirror what uncouth,
   unshaven fellows they had become, had reformed as regards their
   appearance and were now as smart and clean as ordinary civilized
   beings. It was a sight of themselves which had worked the change.

    (2878)


                           SELF-LIMITATIONS

   “Lakeview; why, I should have thought they would call it
   Seaview!” exclaimed the island tourist, standing on the brow of
   the hill.

   “But they don’t see the sea from the house. The top of the
   hills shuts it out. You only see the lake.”

   “I think I would have climbed a little higher and built where I
   could have seen the sea.”

   How many people are content to take up their abode on the
   lakeview side of the hill, instead of climbing to the summit and
   getting the vision of the great sea! (Text.)

    (2879)


                             SELF-MASTERY

   It is related that an eminent scientist, with his wife and
   brother, were sailing one moonlight evening on Lake Geneva.
   It became necessary to climb the mast to adjust a rope, when
   the boat capsized, and in a moment all three were struggling
   in the water. The lady, who was an extremely cultivated woman,
   coolly called to her companions, “I will not take hold of you,
   but come to me and let me put my hands upon your shoulders.”
   Which they did, and she was buoyed up for half an hour until all
   were saved. It was her mastery of herself that made it possible
   for them to rescue her.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character
   Lessons.”

    (2880)


   =Self-mastery Gradual=--See ENDEAVOR, CONSTANT.


                           SELF-MEASUREMENT

   The story of the young man in fiction has traveled all this
   strange distance. It begins with the primitive bard, straining
   his voice and almost breaking his lyre in order to utter
   the greatness of youth and the greatness of masculinity;
   it ends with the novelist looking at both of them with a
   magnifying-glass; it begins with a delight in things above, and
   ends with a delight in things below us. I for one have little
   doubt about their relative value. For if a man can say, “I like
   to find something greater than myself,” he may be a fool or a
   madman, but he has the essential. But if a man says, “I like to
   find something smaller than myself,” there is only one adequate
   answer, “You couldn’t.” (Text.)--G. K. CHESTERTON,
   _The Critic_.

    (2881)


   =Self-possession=--See COMMON SENSE; NERVE.


   =Self-realization=--See MYSELF.


                             SELF-RELIANCE

   Beecher said that once, at school, when he was demonstrating
   a problem in geometry, the master said, “No,” in a tone of
   absolute conviction, and he sat down in great confusion and
   dismay. The next boy was stopt with the same emphatic “No”; but
   the boy went right on, and completed the demonstration. Beecher
   said to the master, “I recited just as he did, and you said
   ‘No.’” The master replied, “Why didn’t you say ‘Yes,’ and stick
   to it? It is not enough to know your lesson, you must know that
   you know it.” You have learned nothing until you are sure. If
   all the world says “No,” your business is to say “Yes,” and
   persist in it.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (2882)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Imitate the Flathead Indians, and fling the child into the
   stream and make him swim. If Flathead Indians do this,
   straight-browed white men should know enough to imitate them.
   Bring your children up to believe that God cares for them, but
   that they must be self-reliant, and care for themselves. The
   fishes’ fin fits the water, the birds’ wing the air, the eye
   fits the sunbeam, the ear matches music, the intellect fits the
   truth and man’s equipment for self-support fits the harvests,
   the fields and the forests.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2883)

   See EDUCATION; INITIATIVE.


                            SELF-REPRESSION

   When Havelock was prosecuting his great march for the relief
   of Lucknow, Sir James Outram was sent out to supersede him.
   Poor Havelock, tho filled with bitter disappointment, was
   ready to obey; but when Outram discovered what marvelous feats
   the unyielding courage and determination of Havelock and his
   brave men had accomplished, he refused to take the glory which
   belonged to another, and insisted upon his brother officer
   finishing the work and earning his glory, while he himself
   served under him. So by requiring self-repression, courtesy may
   become a positive virtue.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character
   Lessons.”

    (2884)

   See POWER IN SELF-REPRESSION.


                            SELF-RESTRAINT

   In the face of a fire peril which would have stricken an
   ordinary crowd with panic, 600 convicts recently, at the Western
   Penitentiary, sat quietly through their Sunday afternoon
   service, with hardly more than a ripple of fear. There was good
   cause for alarm in a fire in the hosiery factory, not fifty feet
   away from the chapel, and its smoke enveloped the windows so
   thickly that electric lights were turned on while Chaplain C.
   Miller continued the exercises.

   Warden Francies himself was in the chapel when the fire broke
   out. He selected half a dozen “trusties” to help the prison
   and city fire departments fight the blaze, and then returned
   to quiet his charges. Fully half of the 600 had looked like
   stampede, but at a word from Chaplain Miller they recovered
   composure, reseated themselves, and listened attentively to the
   sermon. As the flames grew more threatening a second ripple of
   excitement started, but the choir stayed it by singing many
   hymns, in which the convicts joined.

   The fire was fought for more than an hour, many of the
   “trusties” doing the most valiant work. Several were overcome by
   smoke.

   After the fire Warden Francies paid many compliments to his
   charges for the self-restraint they had shown.

   “No body of United States troops,” he said, “could
   have acquitted themselves better under such trying
   circumstances.”--New Orleans _Picayune_.

    (2885)

       *       *       *       *       *

About three weeks after the capture of Fort Donelson slanders and
misrepresentations sent to Washington resulted in removing General
Grant from his command. Colonel Nicholas Smith, in “Grant the Man of
Mystery,” tells how Grant behaved under this unjust treatment. Grant
said:

   When I was ordered to remain behind it was the cause of
   much astonishment among the troops of my command, and also
   disappointment. I never allowed a word of contradiction to go
   out from my headquarters. You need not fear but what I shall
   come out triumphantly. I am pulling no wires, as political
   generals do, to advance myself. I have no future ambition. My
   object is to carry on my part of this war successfully, and I am
   perfectly willing that others may make all the glory they can
   out of it.

    (2886)

       *       *       *       *       *

   When you read this to your uncle he may say, “If General Grant
   had been provoked as I often am, I think he would have sworn.”
   Just tell uncle this story and ask him if General Grant did not
   have some reason now and then to have a provoke:

   “After he had served the nation as its President, General
   Grant was in New York when the Masonic Temple was burned. The
   fireline was drawn half way down the block, but the great,
   surging crowds hampered the work. A policeman stationed below
   failed to recognize the ex-President as he approached the line,
   and quickly grabbing him by the collar, he swung him around in
   the other direction, yelling at him as he gave him a whack with
   his club: ‘Here, what’s the matter with you? Don’t you see the
   fireline? Chase yourself out of here, and be quick about it.’”

   The general did not swear, but just got out of the crowd and
   began to attend to his own business. Swearing would have been a
   great waste of time.--J. M. FARRAR.

    (2887)

   See PROVOCATION, SILENCE UNDER.


                            SELF-REVELATION

   Some time ago one of the magistrates at Clerkenwell hit on a
   new idea in dealing with a prisoner, who came before him on a
   charge of being drunk and incapable. The man’s face was terribly
   bruised, either from tumbling about while drunk, or fighting.
   The case having been proved, the magistrate inquired of the
   chief jailer for a looking-glass. One having been produced, the
   jailer was ordered to take the prisoner and show him his face in
   the glass, and then to liberate him; the magistrate remarking
   that if that exhibition was not a warning to him, he did not
   know what would be. The prisoner was accordingly shown the
   reflection of his disfigured face, and discharged.

There was sound philosophy in the novel method of the magistrate, it
was good and true as far as it went; but it may well be doubted if
the generous device effected any very considerable reformation in the
prisoner.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (2888)


                            SELF-SACRIFICE

   Dr. Finsen, who discovered the “light cure” for the disease
   of lupus, was greatly tempted to keep his secret to himself
   and thus become a very rich man. He lay awake all one night,
   perturbed as to whether he would make public his discovery.
   When morning came, Dr. Finsen had “chosen the better part,” and
   had decided to enrich the world with his cure. Only $1,500 a
   year was paid him by the Government of Denmark, and gradually
   the awful disease from which he himself was a sufferer made it
   impossible for him to work more than an hour a day and to eat
   hardly anything. Literally, Dr. Finsen laid down his life for
   the army of fellow sufferers. Queen Alexandra, proud of her
   fellow countryman, introduced the cure which bears his name to
   the greatest hospital in the world, and Finsen’s discovery has
   alleviated the torture of countless invalids. (Text.)

    (2889)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Equally famous with the man in the moon and the woman in the
   moon is the hare in the moon, says Garrett P. Serviss in his
   “Astronomy with the Naked Eye.” The original is a Buddhist
   legend. The god Sakkria, disguised as a Brahman, pretended to be
   starving and went to the animals for help. The monkey got him
   a bunch of mangoes; the coot picked up a fisherman’s neglected
   string for him; the fox stole him a pot of milk. At last the god
   approached the hare. “I have nothing but grass,” said the hare,
   “and you can’t eat that.” “But your flesh is good,” suggested
   the pretended Brahman. The hare assented. “Then,” said the
   Brahman, “I’ll kindle a fire at the foot of this rock, and you
   jump off into it. That’ll save me the trouble of killing you.”
   The hare assented again, but as he leaped from the rock the god
   caught him in his arms and then drew his figure in the moon as a
   perpetual reminder of the excellence of self-sacrifice. (Text.)

    (2890)

   See GOODNESS IN THE BAD; POVERTY, CHRISTIAN.


                       SELF-SACRIFICE IN NATURE

   The last word of science harmonizes with the first word of the
   gospel; the doctrine of sacrifice has been scorned in many
   quarters as being unscientific. Such a disparagement is no
   longer countenanced by scientists, for they now point to the
   principle of utter abnegation of self as one of the most potent
   of natural laws. We are told that one portion of a flower is
   sacrificed for the sake of the flower as a whole. The rose
   multiplies its petals, but the blossom that is thus beautified
   never comes to seed. The flower dies in its new beauty, but a
   more glorious stock has thus been produced. So it is also with
   insect life. The bee toils night and day for weeks without sleep
   or rest, wearing itself out. Its life has nothing to do with its
   own pleasure, but is entirely surrendered for the good of the
   community. So science has furnished unexpected sanctions to the
   doctrine of sacrifice.

    (2891)


                           SELF-SUPPRESSION

   When we ask what it is that has made Boswell’s book a great
   classic, we are bound to concede to Boswell himself the credit
   of having inaugurated a new style of biography, conceived with
   the true originality, and carried out with conspicuous success.
   Toady, sycophant, braggart, eavesdropper--all these and more
   Boswell may have been, but he had one great gift, the faculty
   of recognizing greatness, and of suppressing himself in the
   presence of greatness.--W. J. DAWSON, “The Makers of
   English Prose.”

    (2892)


                            SELF-SURRENDER

   The caddis-fly leaves his tube behind and soars into upper
   air; the creature abandons its barnacle existence on the rock
   and swims at large in the sea. For it is just when we die to
   custom that, for the first time, we rise into the true life of
   humanity; it is just when we abandon all prejudice of our own
   superiority over others, and become convinced of our entire
   indefensibleness, that the world opens out with comrade faces in
   all directions.--_Fortnightly Review._

    (2893)


   =Selfish, The, Rejected=--See SOCIAL RELIGION.


                              SELFISHNESS

The boy in this anecdote had apparently not been taught that it is
better to give than to receive:

   “Well, Bobby, how do you like church?” asked his father, as they
   walked homeward from the sanctuary, to which Bobby had just paid
   his first visit.

   “It’s fine!” ejaculated the young man. “How much did you get,
   father?”

   “How much did I get? Why, what do you mean? How much what?”
   asked the astonished parent at this evident irreverence.

   “Why, don’t you remember when the funny old man passed the
   money around? I only got ten cents.” (Text.)--_Lippincott’s
   Magazine._

    (2894)

Said Romola to Tito’s child, after calamity had overtaken him:

   There was a man to whom I was very near, so that I could see a
   great deal of his life, who made almost every one fond of him,
   for he was young and clever and beautiful and his manners to all
   were gentle and kind. I believe, when I first met him, he never
   thought of anything cruel or base. But because he tried to slip
   away from everything that was unpleasant, and cared for nothing
   else so much as his own safety, he came at last to commit some
   of the basest deeds--such as make men infamous. He denied his
   father and left him to misery; he betrayed every trust that was
   reposed in him, that he might keep himself safe and get rich and
   prosperous.

That is the history of a man given over to his own selfishness.

    (2895)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The Moslem mollah is notoriously reluctant to give anything
   away. A mollah had fallen into a large pool of water and was
   struggling for his life to reach the bank. “Give me your hand,
   oh my lord, and I will pull you out,” said a passer-by who had
   responded to the lusty cries for help. “No, indeed,” replied
   the mollah; “I have never yet given anything to any one, and I
   certainly will not begin now.” Not liking to leave the drowning
   man, his would-be rescuer, responding to a bright idea that
   occurred to him, said, “Will you take my hand, then, oh my
   lord?” “Gladly,” answered the mollah, and allowed himself to be
   drawn out of the pool, saving his life without losing his innate
   selfishness.

    (2896)


                     SELFISHNESS AND UNSELFISHNESS

   There was a stream gliding blithely and care free down a
   mountain-side in its course to the ocean. On the way it passed
   a stagnant pool, which asked whither it was going. The stream
   answered that it went to contribute its cup of water to the vast
   ocean. “Wait!” said the pool. “Why give up all your substance to
   the ocean, which has no need of it? Follow my example, and hold
   on tight to what you have. Soon the hot season will be around
   and the glaring sun will shrivel you up.” But the stream’s
   unselfishness forbade such a course, and it flowed merrily
   onward, while the pool gathered itself more closely together
   and settled down in its position of selfish ease and comfort.
   Presently the hot season came, and the sun scorched everything
   beneath its blazing heat. But the little stream flowed securely
   beneath an archway of overhanging trees, the leaves and branches
   of which made it immune from dangers and obstructions. And the
   sun peeped through the leaves and smiled upon it, saying that it
   could not harm such an unoffending thing. And the birds came to
   sip of its refreshing waters, while the sweet flowers bloomed
   along its side. The farmer in the field looked kindly upon it,
   the cows came to drink of it, and the stream pursued its way
   happily, blessing everything and being blest. But not so with
   the pool. The sun glared down on it, drying it up and making it
   repugnant and stagnant. And the breezes, kissing it by mistake,
   carried the unhealthy stench over the land, introducing malaria
   wherever it went. Everything shunned and avoided it, and because
   of its selfishness it was transformed into a murky, vile puddle,
   reeking with hurtful germs. But the stream emptied its water
   into the ocean, from which it was borne aloft into the clouds
   and carried back to the mountain summit whence it came, there to
   begin again its joyous course.--S. G. WEISCOTTON.

    (2897)


                        SELFISHNESS BROUGHT OUT

   The common council of Trenton, N. J., has passed an ordinance
   providing that all street-car passengers that can not get a seat
   need not pay their fares. The reason is, of course, that the
   company does not provide nearly enough accommodation for the
   public. Probably there is not a city in the United States where
   this condition does not exist. The profits of the street-car
   companies are largely augmented by patient strap-hangers.
   But, as to Trenton, the effect of this ordinance has been
   extraordinary.

   Passengers that were consumed with ill-nature when they had
   to stand on a crowded car now let empty cars swish past them
   and patiently wait on the street corner until a full one comes
   along, on which they may ride free.

   The ordinance has also exterminated the car boor. When a lady
   steps inside all the men in the car spring to their feet and
   offer her their seats. The conductor has to refund the fare of
   the man that loses his seat in this way. The amusing part of the
   situation, however, is that very often the lady wishes to stand
   herself, especially if she is economical.

   The whole plan smacks of exasperation. The only good point
   about it is the fact that the council feels that something
   ought to be done to force a public-service company to serve
   the public. Some cities have tried the plan of a lower fare
   for the man that has to stand, which undoubtedly is the better
   plan.--RIPPLE, _Christian Endeavor World_.

    (2898)


   =Selfishness, Getting Rid of=--See ETERNAL LIFE, MAKING
      ROOM FOR.


                          SELFISHNESS REBUKED

   A hard bargainer sent the following advertisement to a paper: “A
   lady in delicate health wishes to meet with a useful companion.
   She must be domestic, musical, an early riser, amiable, of
   good appearance, and have some experience in nursing. A total
   abstainer preferred. Comfortable home. No salary.” A few days
   afterward the advertiser received by express a basket, labeled,
   “This side up, with care; perishable.” On opening it, she found
   a tabby cat with a letter tied to its tail. It ran thus:

   “Madam, in response to your advertisement, I am happy to furnish
   you with a very useful companion, which you will find exactly
   suited to your requirements. She is domestic, a good vocalist,
   an early riser, possesses an amiable disposition, and is
   considered handsome. She has had great experience as a nurse,
   having brought up a large family. I need scarcely add that she
   is a total abstainer. As salary is no object to her, she will
   serve you faithfully in return for a comfortable home.” (Text.)

    (2899)


                               SELFNESS

   Our life not being an emanation from God, but a personal
   self-containing product of his power, we are not born to a
   perception of truth which floods our capacities as soon as
   they are opened, as the tides of a sea pour up each inlet that
   is scooped out to receive them; we do not receive pleasure,
   and utter it mechanically, as the pipes of the organ pour out
   without partaking the harmonies that breathe through them. But
   we, each one of us, as our life is unfolded, separate from all
   others, radically discriminated in its vital unity from that of
   every other, must set up for ourselves on the theater of the
   universe.--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (2900)


   =Sense Impressions=--See PICTURES, INFLUENCE OF.


   =Senses, Limited=--See LIMITATION OF THE SENSES.


   =Senses, The, as Indicators of Men=--See CHARACTERISTIC TRAITS.


                             SENSITIVENESS

   The sensitive plant, that shrinks from the touch, is rightly
   regarded as occupying a high place in the vegetable world. When
   its delicate leaves are seen drooping from contact with the
   finger, we might fancy it gifted with a sort of consciousness,
   by which it can not only feel and perhaps suffer, but also
   visibly attempt to withdraw from suffering. It is an interesting
   object to notice, whatever may be our speculations in regard
   to it, and we naturally have strong interest in a plant so
   curiously endowed. Some men and women in our most civilized
   communities seem to be very much akin to this little shrub.
   Their one distinguishing characteristic is sensitiveness.
   They are easily hurt, easily irritated, easily offended. They
   translate every touch, however innocent or even friendly, into
   an intent to trouble or annoy them. They are constantly fancying
   slights, suspecting insults, imagining ridicule, dreading
   censure.--_Public Ledger._

    (2901)

       *       *       *       *       *

Moral shocks are communicated to the whole world as certainly as earth
tremors to the whole earth. No man can do a wrong deed or a right one
without affecting every other man.

   That the earth is extremely sensitive even to the slightest
   shocks, contractions, or alterations is shown by the tremendous
   rapidity with which the indications of these are transmitted
   to various parts of the globe. A few minutes after the first
   shock was felt in San Francisco the seismographic instruments at
   Washington recorded the tremor. (Text.)

    (2902)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A most remarkable example of a peculiar sensitiveness has been
   observed in certain moths of the family _Bombyces_--notably
   the Oak Eggar, the Emperor, and the Kentish Glory. Take a
   newly emerged female of either of these species, shut her up
   in a small box, conceal the box in your pocket, and then walk
   about in some country spot known to you as being one of the
   haunts of that species of moth. Then, if any of the males of
   the same species happen to be in the neighborhood, they will
   settle or hover about close to the female which, altho still
   concealed and quite out of their reach, has attracted them to
   the spot.--W. FURNEAUX, “Butterflies and Moths.”

    (2903)

       *       *       *       *       *

   “An Apology for My Twilight Rambles” was the original title
   of the tender hymn: “I love to steal away a while,” by Phebe
   Hinsdale Brown. The story in a word is this: Phebe was left
   an orphan in her Canaan home (New York), and fell under the
   cruel care of a relative who caused her to grow up timid and
   retiring to a painful degree. Marrying Timothy H. Brown, she
   made her home for some time in Ellington, Conn., caring for a
   growing family. At sunset, one day, she stole away from her
   cares for a little relief and for communion with God, in a
   rich neighbor’s flower garden, which, indeed, was her favorite
   resort. Her trespass was reported to the mistress of the house,
   who accosted her with: “If you want anything, why don’t you come
   in?” meaning, “Get out!” Next day, with a wounded spirit and
   filled with tears, holding her baby to her bosom, she wrote the
   lines above, nine stanzas in all, and sent them to the feminine
   churl who was so little of a neighbor and belied the odor of the
   flowers that blest her garden. (Text.)

    (2904)


   =Sensitiveness to Pain=--See PAIN IN ANIMALS.


                           SENTIMENT, MIXED

In a home designed to get men and boys on their feet and become
independent and self-supporting, there was found in the pocket of one
of the boys the following poem:

    I sometimes think it hardly fair
    That I am here, while you are there.
    Still I am perfectly aware
    You might come here or I go there.

    And I would just as soon be there
    Or here; or have you here or there
    So I suppose I scarcely care;
    In fact, its neither here or there.

    (2905)


                          SENTIMENT, USELESS

   A gentleman was one day relating to a Quaker a tale of deep
   distress, and concluded very pathetically by saying, “I could
   not but feel for him.” “Verily, friend,” replied the Quaker,
   “thou didst right in that thou didst feel for thy neighbor,
   but didst thou feel in the right place--didst thou feel in thy
   pocket?” (Text.)

    (2906)


   =Sentiment versus Sentimentalism=--See FEELINGS, RESERVED.


   =Sentiments of a Dying Soldier=--See ESSENTIALS.


                              SEPARATION

   The South Sea islanders have a singular tradition to account
   for the existence of the dew. The legend relates that in the
   beginning the earth touched the sky, that being the golden age
   when all was beautiful and glad; then some dreadful tragedy
   occurred, the primal unity was broken up, the earth and the sky
   were torn asunder as we see them now, and the dew-drops of the
   morning are the tears that nature sheds over the sad divorce.
   (Text.)

    (2907)


   =Seraphim=--See LOVE RATHER THAN KNOWLEDGE.


                           SERENITY IN LIFE

    Oh, heart of mine, we shouldn’t
              Worry so!
    What we’ve missed of calm we couldn’t
              Have, you know!
    What we’ve met of stormy pain
    We can better meet again,
              If it blow.

    For we know not every morrow
              Can be sad;
    So, forgetting all the sorrow
              We have had,
    Let us fold away our fears,
    And through all the coming years
              Just be glad. (Text.)

    (2908)


                            SERMON, A BRIEF

The longest sermon on record was preached by the Rev. Isaac Barrow,
a Puritan preacher of the seventeenth century, who once delivered a
sermon in Westminster Abbey lasting three hours and a half; and the
shortest sermon ever preached was perhaps the sermon which Doctor
Whewell was fond of repeating from the text, “Man is born unto trouble
as the sparks fly upward.”

The sermon occupied barely a minute in delivery, the following being a
verbatim report:

   I shall divide the discourse into three heads: (1) Man’s ingress
   into the world; (2) His progress through the world; (3) His
   egress out of the world.

   Firstly, his ingress into the world is naked and bare.

   Secondly, his progress through the world is trouble and care.

   Thirdly, his egress out of the world is nobody knows where.

   To conclude:

   If we live well here, we shall live well there.

   I can tell you no more if I preach a year. Then he gave the
   benediction.

    (2909)


   =Sermon, Eccentric=--See GRACE SUFFICIENT.


                             SERMON HEADS

   Preaching a trial sermon in presence of an audience of only
   two persons must in any case be a trial to one’s nerves, but
   especially so when the two happen to be the Archbishop of
   Canterbury (Dr. Tait) and Dean Stanley. We read of such an
   unfortunate young “candidate for priest’s orders” so preaching
   in that rather awful presence. In his confusion he stammered
   out, as he began, “I will divide my congregation into two--the
   converted and the unconverted.” Dr. Tait interrupted him with:
   “I think sir, as there are only two of us, you had better say
   which is which.”--Chicago _Standard_.

    (2910)


                           SERMON, SAVING A

   When pastor of Park Avenue Church, Brooklyn, New York, I was
   preaching one Sunday morning to a languid audience, for it
   was a hot, sultry day in summer. The windows were all open
   for ventilation, but scarcely a breath of air was felt. The
   atmosphere was oppressive, and the service dragged. When about
   half way through my sermon, a sparrow flew through one of the
   open windows, and startled the drowsy audience by flying round
   the church, at times threatening to light on one or other of the
   ladies’ bonnets. At length it lighted on the communion-rail,
   directly in front of the pulpit and in full view of the
   audience, and there settled down quietly. All eyes were intent
   upon it. My discourse had been rudely interrupted, but as if by
   inspiration I was seized with the thought to change my theme,
   speak of God’s care for His children, and use the little bird
   as an object-lesson. This I did, quoting the Savior’s words in
   Matthew 6:26: “Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not,
   neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly
   Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they?” The
   audience was intensely interested, every mind was alert, every
   soul thirsty for the comforting truth. The little creature
   remained perfectly quiet, and seemed as interested as any of
   the rest of us. Just before I closed he flew out of one of the
   windows, having left a message of hope and comfort to tired
   hearts. I have felt a warmer place in my heart ever since for
   “God’s sparrows.”--ELIJAH HUMPHRIES, _Our Dumb
   Animals_.

    (2911)


   =Sermon, The Effect of a=--See CREATURE, A NEW.


   =Sermon versus Salmon=--See PREACHING, RESPONSIBILITY IN.


   =Sermons in Candles=--See ILLUSTRATIONS FROM CANDLES.


                                SERVICE

Service is labor baptized and anointed, and consecrated to high ends.

   William Carey, cobbling shoes in that dingy little room in
   Leicester, tho he was never a skilful workman, yet cobbling
   them as best he could, putting in honest leather and sound pegs
   and strong stitches, and consecrating the toil to the service
   of God’s kingdom, was as truly in the Father’s business as was
   Dr. William Carey, the distinguished Oriental scholar, when
   translating languages, preaching the gospel, and baptizing
   converts in India. That little workshop, with its hammers and
   awls and scraps of leather, represented a department of the
   heavenly Father’s business. (Text.)

    (2912)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Dr. Grenfell, whose devoted labors among deep-sea fishermen
   are known and appreciated on both sides of the Atlantic, was
   converted at a mission conducted in England by D. L. Moody.
   Meeting the evangelist many years afterward, Dr. Grenfell
   recalled the circumstance. Immediately Mr. Moody asked Dr.
   Grenfell, “And what have you been doing since?” Christians must
   not live on their past experiences. “What have you been doing
   since?” will be the Master’s question.

    (2913)

Jesus washed the disciples’ feet. A similar spirit was manifested by H.
B. Gibbud with excellent results, as told by him in this extract:

   I was going from cell to cell among the prisoners, when one man
   called me back, and asked if I remembered him. I did not.

   “Well,” said he, “I remember you. You got me out of the ‘dives’
   in Mulberry Bend in New York City about twelve years ago, took
   me to the Florence Mission, and gave me a note to the Home of
   Intemperate Men. Do you remember?”

   I was unable to place him, as I had done a similar act for quite
   a number.

   “You will remember me, I think, when I tell you the
   circumstances. I was nearly naked; you got some clothes for
   me. I was shivering with delirium tremens, and could not dress
   myself, so you drest me. Now you remember me, don’t you?”

   I was still unable to recollect him.

   “Well, there is one thing more, and that is what broke me up.
   After you had drest me, you said, ‘You want to look nice, so
   I’ll black your boots’; and you did.

   “Now I could not tell, to save my neck, what you said about
   Christ; I did not want to do better; I did not go to the home;
   all I wanted was what I could get out of you. But your blacking
   my boots--I have never been able to get away from that.”

   “I did not want your religion, but to think that you cared
   enough about my soul to black my boots, that has followed me all
   these years, and when I have been drunk and stupid that thing
   would haunt me. I have thought of it hundreds of times, and now
   I thank God has brought me here to meet you again, and I want
   you to pray for me.” (Text.)

    (2914)

       *       *       *       *       *

The whole material universe is ever compulsorily engaged in mutual
service. The spheres wait on earth, air, sun, clouds, and sky. But the
spiritual universe has for its grace and its glory the principle of
service consciously rendered by love and sacrifice.

   Two ragged street urchins stood one day before the window of a
   picture store in London, and one cried out, “Look, Jim, look!”
   “What is it?” Jim asked, and the little fellow answered, “Why,
   there he is. That’s our earl.” It was the photograph of the Earl
   of Shaftesbury, in truth the earl of the poor and opprest. The
   motto of his family is “Love--Serve,” and nobly did he live up
   to his motto. At his funeral a laboring man was heard to say in
   a choking voice, “Our earl’s gone. God A’mighty knows he loved
   us. We sha’n’t see his likes again.” (Text.)

    (2915)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The flowers got into a debate one morning as to which of them
   was the flower of God, and the rose said: “I am the flower of
   God, for I am the fairest and the most perfect in beauty and
   variety of form and delicacy of fragrance of all the flowers.”
   And the crocus said: “No, you are not the flower of God. Why, I
   was blooming long before you bloomed. I am the primitive flower;
   I am the first one.” And the lily of the valley said modestly:
   “I am small, but I am white; perhaps I am the flower of God.”
   And the trailing arbutus said: “Before any of you came forth I
   was blooming under the leaves and under the snow. Am I not the
   flower of God?” And all the flowers cried out: “No, you are
   no flower at all; you are a come-outer.” And then God’s wind,
   blowing on the garden, brought this message to them: “Little
   flowers, do you not know that every flower that answers God’s
   spring call, and comes out of the cold, dark earth, and lifts
   its head above the sod and blooms forth, catching the sunlight
   from God and flinging it back to men, taking the sweet south
   wind from God and giving it back to others in sweet and blest
   fragrance--do you not know they are all God’s flowers?”

    (2916)


   =Service and Age=--See AGE AND EXPERIENCE.


                         SERVICE AND SACRIFICE

   An old Roman coin bore the design of an ox standing between a
   plow and an altar, thus signifying its readiness for either
   service or sacrifice. No symbol could more beautifully represent
   the attitude of the true servant of Christ--ready, while the
   Master wills, to bow the neck to the yoke and toil in his
   service; and just as ready when the call comes, to sacrifice
   everything, even life itself. (Text.)--_Zion’s Herald._

    (2917)


   =Service as Testimony=--See WITNESS OF SERVICE.


                          SERVICE, AUXILIARY

Many a humble parent or teacher might find comfort in the following
pretty fable:

   A taper lay in a drawer, when its owner took it and climbed a
   winding stair in a tower. “Where are you taking me?” asked the
   taper complainingly. “I am going to show big ships their way
   over the sea,” answered the owner. “Why, no ship could see me or
   my little light,” said the taper. “Leave that to me,” added the
   owner as he lighted the big lantern, and then blew the taper out.

    (2918)


                            SERVICE, HUMBLE

   Our service ought to be positive. Every day brings with it
   some chance to help. If your service can not be great, let
   it be small, only let it be service in some way for the good
   of another and for the glory of God. An old Scotch woman in
   Edinburgh was arrested as a suspicious character. She was seen
   furtively picking some things from the sidewalk and putting them
   beneath her shawl. On examination it was found that the articles
   were only little bits of glass. Questioned, she replied that she
   was only picking up the stray pieces of glass that they might
   not cut the bairnies’ feet.

   Remember, there is glass to be taken from life’s highways; there
   are thorns to be uprooted and roses to be planted.--JOEL B.
   SLOCUM.

    (2919)

   See EARTHEN VESSEL.


                          SERVICE, INTERESTED

   Washington housekeepers are inclined to think that T. B.
   Witherspoon, of St. Louis, was romancing recently when he told
   of a negro servant who has been in his employ for fifteen years.
   It appears that the negro was given ten days’ leave and money to
   spend for a trip down to New Orleans, but in three days turned
   up again, and here is the way Mr. Witherspoon explains the
   negro’s return, quoting the servant:

   “‘You see, suh, it done get mighty miserably cold night after
   I lef’ you, and I knows dat Miss Kate (my wife) ain’t got no
   business tryin’ to work dat furnace, and I know you ain’t gwine
   to bother with it. Nary one of you got enny business with a
   dirty old furnace, least of all Miss Kate, who ain’t got no
   right to soil her little han’s. I couldn’t sleep good thinkin’
   about it, an’ dat’s why I gits back quicker’n I ’spected.’

   “There is a specimen act of an old-time, true-hearted darky,
   whose first thought is of the comfort of his employer.”

    (2920)


   =Service, Lowly=--See EXAMPLE.


                          SERVICE, METHOD OF

   When Jael served her yellow-hued dainty to Sisera in that fine
   dish, she set an example that is worthy of being followed in
   more ways than in that hospitable one. Milton in his noble
   thoughts set in his lofty style has served his “butter in a
   lordly dish.” A kindness or a benefaction dealt in a courteous
   spirit and in fine chivalry is equally “butter in a lordly
   dish.” Above all, a life lived in the exercise of a character
   that is sterling and pure gold--serving viands of soul in
   divinest thoughts and sublimest virtues and inspirations that
   gods might envy, is “butter in a lordly dish.” The substance of
   a deed is heightened in merit by its service when the mettle of
   the dish matches the quality of the meat.

    (2921)


                          SERVICE, RELIGIOUS

   If a child finds itself in want of anything, it runs in and
   asks its father for it--does it call that doing its father a
   service? If it begs for a toy or a piece of cake--does it call
   that serving its father? That, with God, is prayer, and He likes
   to hear it. He likes you to ask Him for cake when you want it;
   but He doesn’t call that “serving Him.” Begging is not serving;
   God likes mere beggars as little as you do; He likes honest
   servants, not beggars. So when a child loves its father very
   much, and is very happy, it may sing little songs about him;
   but it doesn’t call that serving its father; neither is singing
   songs about God, serving God. It is enjoying ourselves, if it’s
   anything; most probably it is nothing; but if it’s anything, it
   is serving ourselves, not God.--JOHN RUSKIN.

    (2922)


   =Service Unnoticed=-See RESULTS OF GOOD DEEDS.


                            SERVICE, UNSEEN

   I heard of a young woman, a domestic in a home, who loved her
   Savior and whose heart He had filled with a love for her fellow
   men. Opportunities for service such as the world recognizes
   were few, but every night she was accustomed to gather the
   daily papers after they had been thrown aside. Taking these to
   her room she used to cut from them the list of death notices,
   and laying these before her she knelt and in prayer commended
   those in sorrow to the gracious help of her Father in heaven.
   She did not know them, but they were in sorrow, and in the only
   way she could she ministered to them. We are not judges, but I
   much mistake if in the eyes of Him who judges not as man judges,
   such service as that does not rank high up above the princely
   gifts that attract the attention of the world.--ROBERT
   JOHNSTON.

    (2923)


                         SERVICE WITH HARDSHIP

   In a recent number of _Forward_ the story is told of a
   young Chinese slave girl whose mistress brought her to the
   Presbyterian Mission Hospital at Canton. She was doomed to
   blindness and lameness, so her mistress abandoned her. The
   doctors amputated her leg and gave her little tasks to perform
   about the place and taught her about the heavenly Father and
   Savior. She developed leprosy and was forced to leave these
   friends whom she had learned to love, and go to the darkness
   and horror of a leper settlement. But she went a Christian,
   and in two years that blind, crippled leper built up a band
   of Christians in that leper settlement, and in five years a
   church grew out of her work. That poor crippled invalid life is
   to-day a center of joy and service, and other leper villages are
   sending to her to ask about the wonderful good news which can
   bring joy even to outcasts.

    (2924)


   =Service, Wrong Conception of=--See SEEKING SERVICE.


                                SHADOW

   In sylviculture the growth and fiber qualities of young conifers
   are artificially improved by shutting off the sunlight and
   leaving the trees in very dark places.

There are many virtues in human character that seem to develop more
robustly and come to finer strength in the shadows of adversity.

    (2925)


                          SHADOW AND SUNSHINE

   A terrible shadow in Coleridge’s life was the apparent cause
   of most of his dejection. In early life he suffered from
   neuralgia, and to ease the pain began to use opiates. The
   result on such a temperament was almost inevitable. He became a
   slave to the drug habit; his naturally weak will lost all its
   directing and sustaining force, until, after fifteen years of
   pain and struggle and despair, he gave up and put himself in
   charge of a physician, one Mr. Gillman, of Highgate. Carlyle,
   who visited him at this time, calls him “a king of men,” but
   records that “he gave you the idea of a life that had been
   full of sufferings, a life heavy-laden, half-vanquished, still
   swimming painfully in seas of manifold physical and other
   bewilderment.”--WILLIAM J. LONG, “English Literature.”

    (2926)


   =Shadow of a Great Life=--See LIVING IN THE SHADOW.


                                SHADOWS

   We are made sure that the sun shines not necessarily by seeing
   it, but often by noting the shadows it casts.

So the presence of God in our lives may often be indicated by the
shadows of sorrow and trial.

    (2927)


                              SHAKING-UP

   Many a man will confess that a sound thrashing at the hands of
   some other lad in the days of his youth was the beginning of his
   moral development; that, after the ache was over, it set him to
   thinking. Nature abhors monotony almost as much as a vacuum, and
   seems to have provided that at various times a general shaking
   up is necessary to maintain the proper standard.--JAMES M.
   STIFLER, “The Fighting Saint.”

    (2928)


                                 SHAME

If our deeds were all to be put on a canvas for men to see, should we
be as much ashamed of some as them, as the man in this anecdote?

   There was once a rich landlord who cruelly opprest a poor
   widow. Her son, then a little boy of eight years, witnessed it.
   He became a great painter, and painted a likeness of the dark
   scene. Years afterward he placed it where the cruel man saw it.
   He recognized himself in the shameful picture, turned pale,
   trembled in every joint, and offered a large sum to purchase it
   that he might put it out of sight. (Text.)--LOUIS ALBERT
   BANKS.

    (2929)


                                 SHAMS

Christianity, like its Founder, is the enemy of all false pretense.
Jesus’s denunciations were severest against hypocrites:

   The amount of pain and discomfort which malingerers are willing
   to endure to obtain their discharge is almost incredible, but
   the facts are well attested. A limb has been held in a fixt
   position for many months and not even the application of the
   actual cautery has sufficed to move it. Many men have chopped
   off some fingers and have claimed that it was an accident.
   Mental derangement of one sort or another is a favorite form
   of malingery, but the results usually resemble the popular or
   stage idea of insanity rather than the true products of mental
   alienation.

   The threat of the application of the actual cautery has cured
   paralysis, but cases have been recorded where malingerers have
   endured the cautery on several occasions. A man who simulated
   blindness was placed on the edge of a jetty and told to walk
   straight forward. He stept out and fell into the water, for he
   knew that those who were testing him dared not let him drown.
   In another case, however, a man who seemed to have paralysis of
   an arm allowed the amputating knife to be placed to it without
   flinching, but when thrown into the river he struck out with
   both arms and swam. (Text.)

    (2930)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Musical connoisseurs often express disappointment at the sound
   of some imposing-looking organ. The instrument with the great
   dimensions of its outer frame and the gorgeous show of its great
   gilded pipes in front would give the impression of great power.
   But those pipes, instead of being of hollow and sonorous metal,
   are solid pieces of wood. They are decorated dummies, incapable
   of giving forth a single sound. The musical pipes in such an
   instrument are hidden from view but they alone are of service.

In the world we must expect shams of character and ostentations,
impositions, but in the Church of God there should be no such thing as
“folly that is set in great dignity.” (Text.)

    (2931)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Examination of the premises occupied by a Los Angeles private
   bank, lately closed for lack of funds, showed that the supposed
   vault was a big door without any opening behind it. The door
   was of steel, with plate-glass knobs, shiny combination dials
   and all the features of an imposing safe protecting quantities
   of money. Just how such a sham affair could be put in without
   becoming a matter of comment is hard to see. Or do workmen set
   such doors often enough not to be surprized by them? (Text.)

    (2932)


   =Sharing Blessings=--See RESPONSIBILITY.


                                SHELTER

   He was only a butterfly, one of those beautiful, large,
   bluish-black ones that we so often see about the garden, but he
   knew enough to get in out of the wet.

   It was during one of the heavy showers that so frequently, in
   the hot days of midsummer, come suddenly upon us, driving every
   one to the nearest cover. To escape the downpour, which meant
   great injury, if not destruction, to so delicate a creature, he
   quickly flew to a near-by Balm of Gilead tree, where, alighting
   on the under side of a large leaf, he clung with wings closely
   drawn together and hanging straight downward, using the big
   leaf as an umbrella to shield him from the great drops falling
   all around. High and dry, here he remained until the shower had
   passed, and the blue sky and warm sun called him once again to
   his favorite haunts.--_St. Nicholas._

    (2933)

   See COMPENSATION.


                          SHEPHERD, THE GOOD

   A gentleman traveling in the lonely part of the highlands of
   Scotland was attracted by the bleating of a ewe, as the animal
   came from the roadside, as if to meet him. When nearer she
   redoubled her cries and looked up into his face as if to ask
   for assistance. He alighted from his gig and followed her to
   a considerable distance from the road, where he found a lamb
   completely wedged in betwixt two large stones, and struggling
   with its legs uppermost. He took out the sufferer and placed it
   on the green sward, when the mother, seemingly overjoyed, poured
   forth her thanks in a long-continued bleat.

   The good Shepherd giveth His life for His sheep. He rejoices
   more at the safety of the lost sheep than over the ninety and
   nine that were safe in the fold. (Text.)

    (2934)


   =Shining=--See LIVES THAT SHINE.


                           SHINING AS LAMPS

The _British Weekly_ prints this:

    His lamps are we,
      To shine where He shall say,
    And lamps are not for sunny rooms,
      Not for the light of day,
    But for the dark places of the earth,
    Where shame and wrong and crime have birth;
    Or for the murky twilight gray,
    Where wandering sheep have gone astray;
    Or where the light of faith grows dim,
    And souls are groping after Him.
    And as sometimes a flame we find,
      Clear shining through the night--
    So bright we do not see the lamp,
      But only see the light,
    So we may shine--His light the flame,
    That men may glorify His name.

    (2935)


   =Shining Wherever You Are=--See LIVES THAT SHINE.


   =Ships, Watching the=--See CHEER, SIGNALS OF.


                              SHORING UP

   When building a house it is common for the carpenters to insert
   timbers under the ground-sills pending the time when the stone
   foundations can conveniently be placed.

Similarly we may employ expedients in character-building. Children may
not be ready as yet to grasp principles of conduct; but meanwhile we
give them rules, detail commands, and minute precepts; these serve to
“shore up” the life while the principles are being formed.

    (2936)


                               SHRINKAGE

If a man tries to live on his own moral resources, without new supplies
of divine grace, he will experience a shrinkage of character like that
of the sun, as described in this extract:

   The sun is gradually falling into itself, the outer layers
   are falling toward the center; the sun is shrinking, growing
   smaller; and this contraction, this falling in of the outer
   particles, produces the immense outflow of energy. The whole
   sun contracts, every particle of its whole mass falls toward
   the center and contributes its mite to the total supply of
   heat. The surface particles move, of course, through a much
   greater distance than do those within the sphere. On account
   of the tremendous mass of the sun a very slight contraction
   will suffice to maintain its supply of heat. A shrinkage in the
   solar diameter of some 300 feet a year is all that is necessary
   to account for the great outpour of energy.--CHARLES LANE
   POOR, “The Solar System.”

    (2937)


                       “SHUT-IN” MISSIONARY WORK

   In 1891, Miss Mary Ashton, a “shut-in,” zealous for the
   spreading of the gospel in foreign lands, and desirous to do
   her share, began the sale of ribbon bookmarks and leaflets on
   which were printed Scripture texts and choice poems. With a few
   helpers, the sales and her income increased from year to year,
   so that, at her death in 1899, she was supporting a Bible woman
   in China, another in India, and four missionaries in those
   countries.

   After her death, Miss Theodosia Haine, of Warren, O., also
   a member of the “Shut-in” Society, volunteered to undertake
   Miss Ashton’s work. This she is successfully doing and much
   literature is being disseminated through her efforts. The
   profits resulting from the sale of Miss Haine’s work go to the
   Mary Ashton Fund of the Woman’s Foreign Missionary Society of
   the Methodist Episcopal Church.--_Record of Christian Work._

    (2938)


                      SICK, MIRROR AN AID TO THE

   The looking-glass, whether a plus or a minus quantity, plays
   a more important part in the sick-room than most nurses and
   physicians give it credit for.

   “All things considered, I think it a good plan to give a sick
   person a chance to look at himself occasionally,” said a
   prominent doctor, recently. “Of course, the indulgence must be
   granted with discretion. If a patient is really looking seedy,
   a turn at the looking-glass is equivalent to signing his death
   warrant; but if taken at a time when braced up by some stimulant
   or a natural ebullition of vital force, a few minutes of
   communion with his own visage beats any tonic I can prescribe.
   It thrills the patient with new hope. It makes him feel that he
   isn’t quite so far gone as he had thought, and that possibly a
   fight for life is, after all, worth while. Being thus sensitive,
   a persistent withholding of a mirror convinces the patient
   that he must be too horrible for contemplation, and he promptly
   decides that the best thing for him to do is to give up the
   ghost and get out of the way.

   “That is one of the mistakes hospitals were apt to make up
   to a few years ago. When I was a young fellow, getting my
   first practise after graduation, I served on the staff of
   several hospitals, and in all, especially in the free wards,
   those aids to vanity were strictly forbidden.”--Cleveland
   _Plain-Dealer_.

    (2939)


   =Sick-room, Atmosphere of the=--See TALKING AND SICKNESS.


                       SIDE, CHOOSING THE RIGHT

   Not many years ago I was asked to go to a Georgia county and
   speak, and when I got there some saloon-keepers came in and
   stood up by the wall on one side of me, their object being to
   intimidate me. I said, “Neighbors, you have sent for me to come
   and speak to you on the whisky issue. I am no orator; I am no
   Brutus. I am not going to tell you which side of this question I
   am on, but you just step up to God and ask which side He is on;
   go to Christ and put me down on His side. Go out there to the
   graveyard, and take up that mother who has buried her husband
   and sons in drunkards’ graves, and ask her which side she is
   on--and then put me down on her side. Put me down on the side of
   God and Christ, and the women and children of this land.”

   The leading saloon man in the crowd wiped the tears from his
   eyes. He had just buried a sweet wife and child, and he walked
   out and said, “Boys, I’m done; I throw up the sponge.” The next
   election in that county the prohibition element carried the day
   by five hundred majority.--SAM P. JONES.

    (2940)


                           SIGHT, IMPERFECT

   A rich man, of very miserly character, was found to be suffering
   from cataract in both eyes. Blindness ensued, and he was at last
   compelled to consult a famous oculist. He was appalled by the
   costly fee which was required for an operation, but reluctantly
   assented to an operation on one eye. This restored his sight
   in one eye, and the oculist advised a similar operation on the
   other. “Oh, no,” said the miser; “it’s far too expensive. I
   will manage with the sight of one eye.” Most people would not
   hesitate to call such a man a fool, yet are not many men and
   women contented with semi-blindness? One eye may enable us to
   see material things, but not spiritual things.

    (2941)


   =Sight, Sacrificed=--See SCIENCE, DEVOTION TO.


   =Sign of Distinction=--See EMBELLISHMENT OF PREACHING.


   =Signs=--See SUPERSTITION.


                                SIGNALS

We should be as alert to hear God’s voice in the soul as these
ship-masters are to hear the signals:

   Experiments in the conductivity of sound through liquids were
   begun many years ago by Prof. Elisha Gray, and in 1901 a
   system of signals based thereon, designed by A. J. Mundy, was
   successfully tested in Boston Harbor. Steamships plying between
   Boston and New York have been equipped with the apparatus, and
   are said to use it very frequently in signaling.

   Our representative, while on the _Herman Winter_, observed
   the perfect operation of the apparatus when approaching,
   passing, and leaving the Pollock Rip lightship. It had been
   prearranged that the signal should be the number 73, the number
   of the lightship. This locality was reached shortly before
   daylight, yet when the ship was seven miles from the lightship,
   tossed by tempestuous seas, the signal, seven strokes, then
   three, was faintly but distinctly heard. Within two miles it
   was quite loud, and the peculiar A musical note of the bell
   was plainly noticeable. It is feasible to signal words with a
   special code, and no doubt such a system of communication will
   soon be perfected. (Text.)--_The Scientific American._

    (2942)

   See LISTENING FOR SIGNALS.


                           SIGNALS UNHEEDED

   The engineer of the Philadelphia and Reading flyer, which on
   the night of January 27, 1903, plowed its death-dealing way
   without warning into the splintered cars of the Eastern express
   on the New Jersey Central Railroad, near Westfield, N. J., was
   extricated from the wreck suffering terribly from wounds from
   which he afterward died. When first carried to the hospital
   and questioned concerning the cause of the wreck, he could
   give no clear idea of how it happened that he ran by the red
   signal. In his agony he kept murmuring: “I saw nothing!” His
   later testimony was somewhat confused, but it hardly added to
   or subtracted from the force of that short, sad lament, “I saw
   nothing!” Many a mortal spirit rushes through this world seeing
   nothing, speeding on and on toward eternity, and recklessly
   running by signal after signal set by merciful hands to warn it
   of the dangers ahead.--_Grace and Truth._

    (2943)


                                SILENCE

    The purple flushing of the eastern sky;
      The stately progress of the sun toward even;
      Night’s mantle dropping from the quiet heaven;
    The holy hush which brings God’s presence nigh;
    The dusky woods where cooling shadows lie,
      Where birds are still and Nature to repose
      Sinks gently down; dews falling on the rose;
    Mountains sublime in distance looming high;
    The smile of friends when love surpasses speech;
    The hand-clasp, given when sorrow is too deep
      For words. Ah me, the silence of life
    Are mightier far, and higher lessons teach
    Than all its noisy clamor! Let us reap
      The bliss of those who keep themselves from strife.

    --FREDERICK E. SNOW, _The Outlook_.

    (2944)


                          SILENCE AND SPEECH

   A young man who was an inveterate talker was sent by his parents
   to Socrates to learn oratory. On being presented to Socrates the
   young man spoke so much that Socrates was out of patience. When
   the bargain came to be struck, Socrates asked him double the
   price. “Why charge me double?” asked the young man. “Because,”
   said Socrates, “I must teach you two sciences; the one to hold
   your tongue, and the other how to speak.”

Silence may be as eloquent as speech. The art of the matter is
practise, each at the right time and in the right place.

    (2945)


   =Silence Under Provocation=--See PROVOCATION, SILENCE UNDER.


                           SILENT PROCESSES

   When I was a boy the new shoe (it was a boot then) was a
   mortification wherever I went. It announced my coming like a
   brass band. It was unescapable. To a modest man it was an agony.
   Even an assertive man found it inconvenient at times.

   But now the shoes, even the newest of shoes, shoes worn for the
   first time, do not squeak one little squeak. They would not
   disturb the typical but mythical pin-fall silence.

   Where has the squeak gone? It has been taken up by a layer of
   some sort of cloth or soft fiber between the two layers of
   leather. It is a very simple device, and the wonder, as with so
   many other simple devices, is that it was not thought of before.

   What I want to do is to apply the non-squeak method to my life.
   I want to put something between the rubbing surfaces of my
   thoughts and words and actions that will make them noiseless. I
   want the operation of my brain and the energy of my life to be
   silent. I shall be glad when the world sees results, but I do
   not care to have it see processes.

   I want my shoes to “get there,” but I don’t want them to squeak
   on the way.--ARROW, _Christian Endeavor World_.

    (2946)


                           SIMPLE-MINDEDNESS

   An army examiner once had a very stupid candidate before him,
   who apparently was unable to answer the simplest question. At
   last the examiner lost his temper, and with sarcastic emphasis,
   quite lost on the youth before him, queried.

   “Suppose, sir, that you were a captain in command of a company
   of infantry; that in your rear was an unpassable abyss; that on
   either side of you towered perpendicular rocks of untraversable
   height; that before you stood the enemy, one hundred men to each
   one of yours; what, sir, would you do in this emergency?”

   “General,” said the aspirant to military honors, “I should
   resign.”--_Tit-Bits._

    (2947)


                              SIMPLICITY

   Hon. E. B. Washburne says: “When Grant left his headquarters at
   Smith’s plantation (a short distance above New Carthage, on the
   Louisiana side) to enter on the greatest campaign in history,
   he did not take with him the trappings and paraphernalia so
   common among military men. All depended on the quickness of the
   movement. It was important that he should be encumbered with
   as little baggage as possible. He took with him no orderly, nor
   horse, nor a servant, nor an overcoat, nor a camp-chest, nor
   even a clean shirt. His entire baggage for the six days--I was
   with him at that time--was a tooth-brush! He fared like the
   commonest soldier in his command, partaking of his rations and
   sleeping on the ground with no covering except the canopy of
   heaven.”

    (2948)

   See LIFE, THE SIMPLE; TACT.


                         SIMPLICITY AND TRUTH

   The first rule of evidence in courts is that the easiest
   explanation is the most probable one. The court always rejects
   the far-fetched as the improbable. If the snow should fall
   to-night, and to-morrow morning at daylight footprints in the
   snow should be found, you could explain the footprints in the
   easiest possible way--namely, a man went down the street. A
   far-fetched explanation would be that an aeroplane came along,
   that a man leaned out of the basket, and holding a shoe in
   either hand carefully made these footprints so as to create
   the impression that some one had walked down Orange Street. We
   reject the explanation because it is involved. We choose the
   easiest explanation and the simplest.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2949)


                              SIMULATION

   There are many insects, birds and beasts that preserve their
   being by simulating what they are not, that they may remain
   undistinguishable and escape the pitfalls that may lie in wait
   for them; also to catch the unobservant and destroy them. Among
   these are the “specter insect,” the “walking-stick insect,”
   and the “praying insect” (_Mantis religiosa_), which is
   so constructed, with its fore-legs stiff and thrust into the
   air to resemble a withered twig, that it may escape foes from
   this very resemblance, also that it may catch any unwary insect
   that ventures near for its own subsistence, thus simulating an
   attitude of patient endurance quite like those scavengers of
   the human race--pious beggars who simulate faith and patient
   endurance, but are really burglars and robbers. The sphinx
   caterpillar also simulates what it is not, and escapes its
   enemies by putting on a false appearance, and also attracts its
   food in a like manner.--Mrs. M. J. GORTON, _Popular
   Science News_.

    (2950)


   =Sin, Bondage to=--See BONDAGE TO SIN.


                           SIN-CONSCIOUSNESS

   The Rev. James Guthrie, one of the Scottish Covenanters, had a
   man-servant who was much humbled and perplexed by hearing his
   master pray regularly in family worship for one who was present
   that his sins might be forgiven. There were few, of course, in
   the household circle, and the man naturally thought that it was
   he who was prayed for. After Mr. Guthrie had one night been
   especially fervent in supplication for this person present, the
   man could bear it no longer and spoke to his master, wishing to
   know wherein he had come short. Judge of the astonishment of
   both when Mr. Guthrie said it was himself he had been praying
   for.

    (2951)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A deacon in a Jacobite church near Tripoli, Syria, was seeking
   relief for his sin-burdened conscience. He heard of a woman who
   wrote out all her sins on a paper and laid it on the tomb of St.
   Ephraim. When she found the paper later, there were no traces of
   writing on it, so she knew her sins had been erased. The deacon
   wrote his, and placed them under the altar-cloth beneath the
   sacred wafer which he believed to be the very body of Christ;
   but the ink showed no signs of dimness. He was disappointed and
   discouraged, but just at that time he found a tract entitled
   “Looking unto Jesus,” which showed him a better way.

    (2952)

   See EXPERIENCE AND BIBLE.


                              SIN COVERED

   In the old days the gutters were open in the streets, but
   in modern towns they are put underground; so society is
   always forcing vices and abuses underground, covering them
   up by a variety of regulations that they no longer shock
   the public sense. Still, on occasion, the covered drain may
   prove its deadly virus, and the covered sin of the community
   is still there, working and threatening mischief.--W. L.
   WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (2953)


   =Sin Exposed=--See EXPOSURE.


                          SIN, FASCINATION OF

Let the young especially beware of the insidious approacher of evil.
Says Lady Montague:

   I have sat on the shore and waited for the gradual approach
   of the sea, and have seen its dancing waves and white surf,
   and lingered till its gentle notes grew into billows and had
   well-nigh swept me from my firmest footing. So have I seen a
   heedless youth gazing with a too curious spirit on the sweet
   motions and gentle approaches of an inviting pleasure, till it
   has detained his eye, and imprisoned his feet, and swelled upon
   his soul and swept him to a swift destruction. (Text.)

    (2954)


                              SIN, HIDDEN

Donald Sage Mackay, in “The Religion of the Threshold,” writes in
substance as follows:

   Henry Drummond vividly describes the ravages of the African
   white ant. One may never see the insect possibly in the flesh,
   for it lives underground. But its ravages confront one at every
   turn. You build your house, perhaps, and for a few months fancy
   you have pitched on the one solitary site in the country where
   there are no white ants. But one day suddenly the door-post
   totters, and lintel and rafter come down together with a crash.
   You look at a section of the wrecked timbers and discover that
   the whole inside is eaten clean away. The apparently solid logs
   of which the rest of the house is built are now mere cylinders
   of bark, and through the thickest of them you can push your
   little finger. It is a vivid picture of the way in which
   concealed sins eat out the pith of the soul. To the outward eye
   everything may remain the same, but the fiber of character has
   been punctured through and through, till the whole nature is
   corroded.

    (2955)


   =Sin, Ineffaceable=--See CONSEQUENCES, IRREPARABLE.


                             SIN, ORIGINAL

   What a strange misuse of language to speak of sacred writers
   as inventing original sin! Can we say that Jenner invented the
   smallpox, or that Pasteur invented the rabies, or that any of
   the celebrated physicians invented the maladies which are known
   by their names? What these famous men did was to successfully
   diagnose, characterize, and treat diseases which already
   existed, and which proved their malignant power by carrying
   thousands of men and women to the grave. (Text.)--W. L.
   WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (2956)


                             SIN, SENSE OF

It is popular in some quarters to pooh-pooh, the sense of sin, or to
smile away the seriousness of sin.

   Alfred de Musset, when he was young (the same fact is told of
   Merimee), once, being very much scolded for a childish freak,
   went away in tears, deeply penitent, when he heard his parents
   say, after the door was shut: “Poor boy, he thinks himself
   quite a criminal!” The thought that his misdeed was not so very
   serious, and that his repentance was mere childishness, wounded
   him deeply, and the impression remained engraved on his memory
   forever. (Text.)

    (2957)


                           SIN, SUBTLETY OF

   Our scientists, by the aid of powerful lenses, intense lights,
   exquisite adjustments, have succeeded in rendering visible the
   germs of several terrible maladies which decimate us, and these
   ardent naturalists hope ultimately to discover germs still more
   minute and obscure. But can any one believe that a bacteria
   of immorality will ever be revealed by the microscope as the
   germs of disease have been? Fever and cholera germs, germs of
   consumption, hydrophobia, erysipelas, have been disclosed by
   the fierce light of modern research; but no one will suppose
   that the germs of intemperance, impurity, anger, covetousness,
   deceit, pride, murder, foolishness, will ever be thrown on the
   screen, and an antidote be found for them in the pharmacopoeia.
   If it were thus possible to exhibit the secret of our sins, how
   we should shudder at the sight of the naked human heart, and
   shrink from the ghastly things which nestle there! But such a
   spectacle is not possible, and we are sure that it never will
   be. The germs of moral disease are in the soul itself; no glass
   of science may make them visible, no physician may deal with
   them, no medicine may purge them.--W. L. WATKINSON,
   “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (2958)


                         SIN WITHOUT ATONEMENT

A writer, speaking of the wasteful use of coal in England, and the
consequent diminishing of the national store, says:

   Our stock of coal is a definite and limited quantity that was
   placed in the present storehouse long before human beings
   came upon the earth. Every ton of coal that is wasted is lost
   forever, and can not be replaced by any human effort, while
   bread is a product of human industry, and its waste may be
   replaced by additional human labor. The sin of bread-wasting
   does admit of agricultural atonement, while there is no form of
   practical repentance that can positively and directly replace a
   hundredweight of wasted coal.

Here is an instance of a sin without atonement. Man can not reproduce
the coal that he has once wasted. Grace has a kindlier word for our
moral waters. The “years that the locust eaten” may be restored. (Text.)

    (2959)


                            SINNERS AND GOD

The following is taken from Jonathan Edwards’ sermon entitled, “Sinners
in the hands of an angry God.” The sinners are given a dreadful warning.

   The wrath of God burns against them; their damnation don’t
   slumber; the pit is prepared; the fire is made ready; the
   furnace is now hot, ready to receive them; the flames do now
   rage and glow. The devils watch them; they are ever by them,
   at their right hand; they stand waiting for them, like greedy,
   hungry lions that see their prey, and expect to have it, but
   are for the present kept back. If God should withdraw His hand,
   by which they are restrained, they would in one moment fly upon
   their poor souls. The old serpent is gaping for them; hell opens
   its mouth wide to receive them; and if God should permit it,
   they would be hastily swallowed up and lost. The God that holds
   you over the pit of hell, much as one holds a spider or some
   loathsome insect over the fire, abhors you, and is dreadfully
   provoked; His wrath toward you burns like fire; He looks upon
   you as worthy of nothing else, but to be cast into the fire;
   He is of purer eyes than to bear to have you in His sight; you
   are ten times so abominable in His eyes as the most hateful and
   venomous serpent is in ours.

Jonathan Edwards was born October 5, 1703. What a difference time makes
in religious thinking.

    (2960)


                           SINS, ACCUMULATED

   A great mogul engine goes dashing along at a high speed, plowing
   its way against wind, and defying every obstruction. But little
   snowflakes, steadily falling on the track, grow into a heap that
   brings the monster to a standstill.

Not one great crime, but many small sins block the soul’s progress
heavenward.

    (2961)


   =Sin’s Causes=--See DISEASE, CAUSES OF.


                               SINS, PET

   An officer in India, who one day fell asleep with his left hand
   hanging over the couch, was awakened by his young pet lion
   licking him. The rough tongue brought blood, and the officer
   tried to withdraw his hand. At the first movement the lion gave
   a short growl and grasped the hand more firmly, upon which the
   officer, seeing that his lion cub had become suddenly changed
   from a domestic pet to a wild beast, took a loaded pistol from
   under his pillow with his right hand and shot the animal dead.

There are pet sins that men caress, parade, and boast of. They appear
harmless enough to the casual observer, but at some unexpected moment
they becoming a “roaring lion seeking whom he may devour.” (Text.)

    (2962)


                             SINS OF YOUTH

   In some strata there are to be seen the marks of showers of rain
   which fell centuries ago, and they are so plain and perfect that
   they clearly indicate the way the wind was drifting and in what
   direction the tempest slanted from the sky. So may the tracks
   of youthful sins be traced upon the tablet of life when it has
   merged into old-age tracks on which it is bitter and sad to
   look, and which call forth many a worthless longing for the days
   and months which are past. (Text.)--MURSELL.

    (2963)


   =Sins That Are Regarded as Little=--See LITTLE SINS.


                      SINGING CONDUCIVE TO HEALTH

   The time will soon come when singing will be regarded as one of
   the great helps to physicians in lung diseases, more especially
   in their incipient state. Almost every branch of gymnastics is
   employed in one way or another by the doctors, but the simple
   and natural function of singing has not yet received its full
   meed of attention. In Italy, some years ago statistics were
   taken which proved that the vocal artists were especially
   long-lived and healthy, under normal circumstances, while of
   the brass instrumentalists it was discovered that consumption
   never claimed a victim among them. Those who have a tendency
   toward consumption should take easy vocal exercises, no matter
   how thin and weak their voices may seem to be. They will find a
   result at times, far surpassing any relief afforded by medicine.
   Vocal practise, in moderation, is the best system of general
   gymnastics that can be imagined, many muscles being brought into
   play that would scarcely be suspected of action in connection
   with so simple a matter as tone production. Therefore, apart
   from all art considerations, merely as a matter of health,
   one can earnestly say to the healthy, “Sing! that you may
   remain so,” and to the weakly, “Sing, that you may become
   strong.”--Boston _Musical Herald_.

    (2964)


   =Singing Stays Panic=--See SELF-RESTRAINT.


                         SINGLENESS OF PURPOSE

   The engineers of Nicholas I showed him their map of a crooked
   railway line from St. Petersburg to Moscow, explaining that it
   curved this way and that to take in this and that important
   interest or city, but the Czar took a ruler and drew a straight
   line between his two capitals, saying: “Build me that road.”

   The secret of the Czar’s engineering was simply a single
   purpose to join the old and new capitals of his empire.
   The engineers thought of one great interest this way, and
   another that way; but the Czar had no interests but the one.
   That may have been poor business, but it was good military
   engineering, and had it continued in Russian military autocratic
   government, the Japanese, in the late war, would have had harder
   work.--FRANKLIN NOBLE, “Sermons in Illustration.”

    (2965)


   =Sisterhood=--See GRACIOUSNESS IN WOMEN.


                           SIZE, COMPARATIVE

Many a man who looks large in small surroundings, is dwarfed to a pigmy
when placed among his superiors:

   Since the Statue of Liberty was erected the scale of almost
   everything material has changed, especially in New York, so that
   the colossus does not look even large now. It was all very well
   for the Colossus of Rhodes to straddle the harbor entrance,
   looking down on the tiny sailing craft, and pigmy buildings of
   its day; it could not look otherwise than grandiose; but it
   would have been swallowed up and lost among the sky-scrapers
   and mammoth ocean-liners of twentieth-century New York, with
   its huge bridges, lofty towers, and all-around bigness. Nothing
   counts in a work of art but quality.--Boston _Transcript_.

    (2966)

   See COMPARATIVE, THE.


                            SIZE NOT POWER

   John Stuart Mill gives us a wonderful contrast between man’s
   brief day and the enduring ages of Neptune, yet Neptune is a
   frozen clod, whirling on in eternal ice and darkness. A little
   ball of ice can not laugh nor love nor sing nor curse nor faint
   nor die; neither can a big ball of ice named Neptune. It is
   man alone who is great, as the regent under God. The contrast
   between the insignificance of man and the greatness of nature is
   based on the fallacy that bulk is greatness. The truth is that
   bulk is bulk, and concerns rocks and clods. Size is not power.
   (Text.)--N. D. HILLIS.

    (2967)


   =Skill=--See HEADWORK.


   =Skill by Experience=--See PRECAUTIONS.


   =Skill Solving a Problem=--See CHARACTER CONDITIONED BY
      THE PHYSICAL.


                         SKILL WITH TENDERNESS

   Years ago, in Central New York, lived a Dr. Delamater, a noted
   surgeon. It was before the days of anesthetics. A woman patient
   consulted him, and after examination he told her, with tears in
   his eyes, that a painful and dangerous operation was necessary.
   “Proceed,” said the woman. The surgeon’s success was complete.
   “Weren’t you afraid when you saw the surgeon affected so?” she
   was asked later. “No,” she said, “that was what helped me. Those
   tears assured me that the doctor was as tender-hearted as he was
   skilful. I could trust such a man.” (Text.)

    (2968)


                               SKY, THE

   In landscape-painting the sky, it is said, is the keynote, the
   standard of scale, and the chief organ of sentiment; just as the
   sky is the source of light in nature, and governs everything.
   This led John Constable to say that “the landscape-painter who
   does not make his skies a very material part of his composition
   neglects to avail himself of one of his greatest aids.” He says
   he was advised to consider his sky as “a white sheet thrown
   behind the objects.” He claims that the skies have what he calls
   a natural history in the changes that they show. As West once
   told him: “Always remember, sir, that light and shade never
   stand still,” adding: “In your skies always aim at brightness
   ... even the darkest effects there should be brightness. Your
   darks should look like the darks of silver, not of lead or of
   slate.” It was the fault in the skies that led to the rejection
   of Constable’s picture, “Flatford Mill,” by the Royal Academy.

How much life depends upon its skies.

    (2969)


                               SLACKNESS

Mr. C. E. Russell, in _Hampton’s Magazine_, gives some experiences
of Dr. H. H. Hart, of Chicago, member of the National Prison
Association. One time he went to an Illinois jail in a small rural
town, and asked to see the sheriff:

   It appeared that the sheriff was visiting in another part of
   the county. Doctor Hart asked for the jailer. The jailer was
   absent, attending a funeral. Was any officer within range? Oh,
   yes, there was a deputy sheriff somewhere about. After diligent
   search, Doctor Hart succeeded in running down the deputy
   sheriff, and announced that he had come to inspect the jail.

   The deputy sheriff said he would get the key. He felt in one
   pocket after another, and at last announced, with some trace of
   annoyance, that he could not find the key. For a moment he stood
   silent and meditating, until at last a bright thought seemed to
   occur to him. “Wait a moment,” he said, and disappeared into the
   barn. Presently he returned with another man.

   “This is one of the prisoners,” said the deputy. “I guess he has
   the key.”

   Accordingly, the prisoner dug the key out of a pocket and
   ushered Doctor Hart into the prison.

   On another occasion Doctor Hart visited a jail, and found it
   apparently deserted. He could discover no sheriff, no jailer, no
   deputy. A man was sweeping the sidewalk, and of him Doctor Hart
   asked for news of the county officers. The man shook his head.

   “I guess I’m the only prisoner here. The sheriff and the jailer
   have gone out into the country on a picnic.”

   “What are you in for?”

   “Oh, for murder,” said the man, nonchalantly, and resumed his
   sweeping.

   Incredible as it may seem, this man was telling the truth, and
   not long afterward he was tried and found guilty.

    (2970)


                                SLANDER

   Against slander there is no defense. It starts with a word, with
   a nod, with a shrug, with a look, with a smile. It is pestilence
   walking in darkness, spreading contagion far and wide, which
   the most wary traveler can not avoid; it is the heart-searching
   dagger of the dark assassin; it is the poisoned arrow whose
   wounds are incurable; it is the mortal sting of the deadly
   adder, murder its employment, innocence its prey, and ruin its
   sport.--_Catholic Telegraph._

    (2971)


                          SLANDER IRREPARABLE

   The man who breaks into my dwelling, or meets me on the public
   road and robs me of my property, does me injury. He stops me on
   the way to wealth, strips me of my hard-earned savings, involves
   me in difficulty, and brings my family to penury and want. But
   he does me an injury that can be repaired. Industry and economy
   may again bring me into circumstances of ease and affluence. The
   man who, coming at the midnight hour, fires my dwelling, does
   me an injury--he burns my roof, my pillow, my raiment, my very
   shelter from the storm and tempest; but he does me an injury
   that can be repaired. The storm may indeed beat upon me, and
   chilling blasts assail me, but Charity will receive me into her
   dwelling, will give me food to eat, and raiment to put on; will
   timely assist me, raising a new roof over the ashes of the old,
   and I shall again sit by my own fireside, and taste the sweets
   of friendship and of home. But the man who circulates false
   reports concerning my character, who exposes every act of my
   life which may be represented to my disadvantage, who goes first
   to this, then to that individual, tells them he is very tender
   of my reputation, enjoins upon them the strictest secrecy, and
   then fills their ears with hearsays and rumors, and, what is
   worse, leaves them to dwell upon the hints and suggestions of
   his own busy imagination--the man who thus “filches from me
   my good name,” does me an injury which neither industry, nor
   charity, nor time itself can repair.--_Catholic Telegraph._

    (2972)


                      SLAVE FOR THE GOSPEL’S SAKE

   On the wall of a church in Algiers is a memorial tablet,
   inscribed with the name of Devereaux Spratt. Born in England,
   he, in 1641, with 119 other persons, the passengers and crew
   on board an English ship, were captured by Algerine pirates
   and sold into slavery. Having tasted of the salvation of Jesus
   Christ, he soon began laboring for the salvation of others,
   and many were brought to know and acknowledge the Lord. After
   some time, his family, being influential, persuaded the English
   Government to interfere on behalf of these poor captives, and
   the dey of Algiers granted to Mr. Spratt his liberty. But those
   among whom he had labored sorrowed so bitterly as they thought
   of losing him from among them, and the bonds which held him to
   them were so strong and tender, that he actually declined the
   offer of freedom, gave up home and friends, and consented to
   abide in lifelong bondage, that he, being a slave, might make
   others free. Thus, for the sake of emancipating the souls of
   others, he lived and died an Algerine slave. (Text.)

    (2973)


                      SLAVE TRADE, ATROCITIES OF

   Slaves of both sexes in South Africa were chained together
   in pairs, many being mere skeletons from the misery, want,
   and fatigue of their march. In some the fetters had, by their
   constant action, worn through the lacerated flesh to the bare
   bone, the ulcerated wound having become the resort of myriads
   of flies. One captain had thrust his slaves between decks and
   closed the hatches for the night. When morning came fifty of the
   poor wretches were found to have been suffocated. The captain
   swore at the untimely loss, had the bodies thrown into the
   river, and went on shore to buy more negroes to complete his
   cargo.

   As the summary of the facts recorded, it may be stated that:

    Of 1,000 victims to the slave trade, one-half
    perished in the seizure, march and
    detention                                     500

    Of 500 embarked on the transports, one-fourth,
    or 25 per cent, died in the
    middle passage                                125

    Of the remaining 375 landed, 20 per cent
    died soon after                                75

    Of 1,000 slaves, total loss                   700

   So that the annual loss to South Africa in its inhabitants was
   500,000.--EDWARD GILLIATT, “Heroes of Modern Crusades.”

    (2974)


   =Slavery Abolished=--See FREEDOM, GRATITUDE FOR.


                             SLAVERY ENDED

   In 1834 the children of the Jamaica slaves were freed, but
   at midnight of July 31, 1838, a general proclamation of
   emancipation went into effect and every adult slave in Jamaica
   became a free man. In anticipation of this event, William Knibb,
   the evangelist, gathered together the ten thousand slaves on
   that island for a prayer and praise meeting, and when the
   first stroke of the midnight bell pealed out, William Knibb
   shouted, “The monster is dying!” When the second stroke came,
   he said “dying”--after the third stroke he again said “dying,”
   and when the twelfth stroke struck he said “The monster is
   dead--let us bury him.” They had ready an immense coffin, into
   which they cast the whips, the branding-irons, the handcuffs
   and fetters, the slave garments and all the memorials of their
   slavery--and screwed down the lid. They let the coffin down into
   a twelve-foot deep grave, and, covering it over, they buried out
   of sight all the memorials of their past life of bondage.

    (2975)


                           SLAVES NOT HEROES

   When Louis XIV, in order to check what he perceived to be the
   growing supremacy of England upon the seas, determined to
   establish a navy, he sent for his great minister Colbert, and
   said to him, “I wish a navy--how can I create it?” Colbert
   replied, “Make as many galley-slaves as you can.” Thereupon
   every Huguenot who refused to doff his bonnet on the street
   as the King passed by, every boy of seventeen who could give
   no account of himself, every vagrant without an occupation,
   was seized, convicted and sent to the galleys. Could a navy of
   heroes be made of galley-slaves? The history of the Anglo-Saxon
   race says “No.”--HAMPTON L. CARSON.

    (2976)


                          SLAVES OF PLEASURE

   Philanthropists in prison cells, missionaries to the Fiji
   Islanders, people doing rescue work in the worst sections of
   great cities, Livingstone in Africa, all these, through zeal,
   can work till midnight to save lost men, but the votary of
   pleasure will toil on up and down a waxed floor till daylight,
   until the head reels and the whole heart is sick. In his
   “Confessions” Tolstoi says that for ten years he went from
   banquet to banquet, drinking rich wines, feasting, following
   his tailor, concocting flatteries, lies, sleeping by day and
   dissipating at night, and he adds, “My observation is that
   no galley-slave or apostle like Paul has to toil as hard as
   a society man and a society woman,” and both have lost their
   beauty, their happiness and their health before the life
   course is half run. So pleasure makes its disciples become
   galley-slaves. But pleasure promised a velvet path, air heavy
   with roses, the wine and nectar of Venus and Bacchus. Pleasure
   promised perfumed bowers, days of happiness, nights of laughter
   and song. But pleasure is a deceiver. (Text.)--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (2977)


   =Sleeping in Church=--See SELF-BLAME.


                               SLOWNESS

   “A snail’s pace,” hitherto a remarkably indefinite phrase,
   has at last been exactly defined, thanks to the experimental
   philosophers of the Terre Haute Polytechnic. After putting half
   a dozen of them through their paces, and making all necessary
   differentiations, it was ascertained that a snail can travel
   exactly a mile in fourteen days. Hence, it will be seen that
   it is about nip and tuck between the snail and the boy when
   you send the latter to a grocery past a vacant lot where the
   other boys are engaged in a game of baseball.--Cincinnati
   _Enquirer_.

    (2978)


                           SMALL ANNOYANCES

James Drummond, in “Parables and Pictures,” says:

   We have heard of a battle against cannibals gained by the use of
   tacks. They had taken possession of a whaling vessel and bound
   the man who was left in care of it. The crew, on returning, saw
   the situation, and scattered tacks upon the deck of the vessel,
   which penetrated the bare feet of the savages, and sent them
   howling into the sea. They were ready to meet lance and sword,
   but they could not overcome the tacks on the floor. We brace
   ourselves up against great calamities. The little tacks of life,
   scattered along our way, are hard to bear.

    (2979)


                           SMALL BEGINNINGS

“Despise not the day of small things.” “Great oaks from little acorns
grow.”

   A boy used to crush flowers to get their color, and painted the
   white side of his father’s cottage in Tyrol with all sorts of
   pictures, which the mountaineer gazed at as wonderful. He was
   the great artist, Titian.

   An old painter watched a little fellow who amused himself
   making drawing of his pots and brushes, easel and tools, and
   said, “That boy will beat me some day.” So he did, for he was
   Michelangelo.

    (2980)


   =Small Duties=--See HELPFULNESS.


                      SMALL EVILS HARDEST TO BEAR

Gerald Gould expresses in verse a sentiment that many will indorse:

    It is the slow and softly dropping tears
    That bring the furrows to man’s face; the years,
      Falling and fall’n vain,
    That turn the gold to gray upon his head;
    And the dull days to disappointment wed,
      And pain that follows pain
    That make life bitter in the mouth, and strew
    The dead with roses, but the quick with yew.

    Better a wide and windy world, and scope
    For rise and downfall of a mighty hope,
      Than many little ills;
    Better the sudden horror, the swift wrong,
    Than doubts and cares that die not, and the long
      Monotony that kills:
    The empty dawns, pale stars, and narrow skies,
    Mean hopes, mean fears, mean sorrows, and mean sighs.
    (Text.)--_The Spectator._

    (2981)


   =Smallness and Bigness Compared=--See DESTRUCTIVENESS.


   =Smiles=--See LOVE’S CAREFULNESS; TROUBLE.


                           SMILES AND FROWNS

We would all be willing to help in the pleasant task described in these
verses:

    If I knew the box where the smiles are kept,
      No matter how large the key
    Or strong the bolt, I would try so hard,
      ’Twould open I know for me.

    Then over the land and sea broadcast
      I’d scatter smiles to play,
    That the children’s faces might hold them fast
      For many and many a day.

    If I knew a box that was large enough
      To hold all the frowns I meet,
    I would try to gather them, every one,
      From nursery, school, and street.

    Then, folding and holding, I’d pack them in,
      And turn the monster key;
    I’d hire a giant to drop the box
      To the depths of the deep, deep sea.

    (2982)


                                SMILING

   In Brooklyn, two young women undertook to band together a smile
   club. In this club’s membership may be included every one,
   everywhere, who is willing to pledge as many smiles as possible
   to make life generally happier. Here are some of the things
   required of members: “Radiate! Smile! Shine like a little sun!
   Begin each day anew, and begin it by smiling until you are in a
   good humor. Think only of the things you wish to possess or of
   what you desire to become, for thoughts are things. Have faith
   and your wishes will come true. Smile! And keep on smiling, and
   you will find that the happiness you have always been seeking is
   within yourself. Express this happiness.” Surely no objection
   can be offered to the organizing of clubs of this sort, tho
   we need not necessarily join one to acquire and practise the
   smiling habit. It may be said of smile clubs and smiles, the
   more the merrier. As a popular post-card puts it: “Smile a
   while, and while you smile another smiles, and soon there are
   miles and miles of smiles because you smile.” Grouches could not
   exist if every one was smiling. It’s worth trying for a few days
   anyhow, just to see how well it works.

    (2983)


   =Snob versus Gentleman=--See GENTILITY, FALSE STANDARD OF.


                               SNOBBERY

   A countryman had been to the city and went home brimful of
   news. “You ’member the Smiths?” he asked his wife, “the Silver
   Crik Smiths, them as got rich on the’r gran’feyther’s money.”
   Yes, she remembered them. “I seen ’em. They’re way up; live in
   a gran’ house on a street they call a thavenoo. They ride in a
   double kerridge, and have no end of money.” She said she s’posed
   as much. “But, ’Mandy, you wouldn’t want ter change places with
   her; I see her a minnit, and I didn’t hev the heart to speak
   t’her. She’s bin humbled right down to the dust. She’s as blind
   as a bat.” Blind! She guessed not. “But she is. Fust, she didn’t
   know me, me that’s rid down hill and played tag with her when
   she warn’t knee-high to a turkey. Then, ’Mandy, tho her eyes was
   wide open, she went right along the streets, all drest up in her
   fine clothes, and a leetle mite of a dog was leading her along.
   He was tied to a streeng, and she had hold of t’other end of
   the streeng. Now, ’Mandy, how’d you like to be her?”--Detroit
   _Free Press_.

    (2984)


                           SNOBBERY REBUKED

Social standing is not always a sign of moral worth, as the following
story suggests:

   “The late Francis Murphy,” said a Pittsburg man, “perhaps the
   greatest temperance reformer our country has ever seen, hated
   snobbishness hardly less than drunkenness. At a dinner in
   Pittsburg I once heard him rebuke, with a little anecdote, a
   snobbish millionaire.

   “He said there was a rich and snobbish English woman living in
   the country. Her husband put himself up for a political place,
   and in order to help his campaign along the woman gave a garden
   party to which every voter for miles around was invited.

   “Among the humble guests was a very independent grocer. The
   grocer made himself quite at home. No duke’s manner could
   have been easier and freer. Indeed, the man’s total lack of
   subservience angered his hostess extremely, so that in the end,
   thinking to take him down a peg, she said to him significantly:

   “‘You know, Mr. Greens, in London, shopkeepers don’t go into the
   best society.’

   “The grocer looked at her, and nodded and smiled.

   “They don’t here, either, ma’am,’ he said.” (Text.)

    (2985)


                          SOCIAL CHRISTIANITY

   In other days when people did not have matches they were
   sometimes obliged to go to the neighbors for fire, if their
   own blaze went out. Usually a bunch of large knots were laid
   on the coals at night and then covered over with ashes until
   morning. But if the knots failed to burn, then the oldest
   child was usually sent to the neighbors with an iron kettle to
   borrow fire. Happy to be of use, the child soon returned with a
   kettleful of bright coals and a blazing knot on top.

   No man can live at his best who leads a solitary life. Without
   the fellowship of others, like an isolated coal he soon ceases
   to glow and burn. Very few can remain for a long time in a white
   heat of enthusiasm. The flames die down, the warmth disappears
   unless the fires are kept replenished. Brainard’s prayer was
   “O that I could be a flame of fire in the service of my God.”
   (Text.)

    (2986)

   See CHRISTIANITY, SOCIAL.


   =Social Faults=--See DIFFICULTIES, SOCIAL.


                       SOCIAL INSTINCTS IN BIRDS

   On one occasion Mr. Leander Keyser’s several cages of birds
   were moved from one porch to another on the other side of the
   house. The jay’s cage, being too big for the new quarters,
   was left behind, when at once the bird began to express his
   dissatisfaction and loneliness. All day he rushed about his
   cage, calling in the most pitiful way. The next morning he was
   no more reconciled, and showed so plainly by every look and
   motion his unhappiness that a place was made for him near the
   others. The moment he saw them he gave a cry of delight, his
   calls ceased, he chirped and twittered, and was his happy self
   again.--OLIVE THORNE MILLER, “The Bird Our Brother.”

    (2987)


                        SOCIAL INTERDEPENDENCE

   There was once a rich man who lived in a certain village. The
   people were pleased to have this man of influence among them.
   The only fault that they found with him was that he was selfish.
   It did not trouble him if his neighbors were poor or sick or
   out of work or in trouble. What was that to him? It only added
   to his position of superiority. He could import his edibles. He
   could hire foreign labor. But one day a family was stricken with
   a contagious disease induced by their poverty and poor food. The
   village was quarantined. He went to a gardener for vegetables
   but the cut worms had made the garden fail. He went to the
   poultry-dealer for eggs, but his hens were not laying well. He
   went to the farmer for fruit, but the drought had injured his
   vines. Then the rich man began to realize the relation between
   himself and his fellow man. If trouble came to his neighbor, he
   could not escape its blight. It was then that he became truly
   humble and began to love his neighbor as himself.

   It is as true in our moral and spiritual life as it is in our
   physical life. The sin that blasts our neighbor’s character
   will sooner or later cast its shadow upon us, live we ever so
   blameless. No one can live his life apart from his neighbors.
   (Text.)

    (2988)


                            SOCIAL PROGRESS

   “The farmers’ telephone was a boon during heavy and
   unprecedented snows,” says _The Electrical World and
   Engineer_, “and many interesting uses are reported in New
   York State in places where many roads were blocked with drifts
   over ten feet deep. Hemmed in so that they could not see a
   neighbor for weeks, farmers have been able to converse with
   their friends and thus keep in touch with the world.” (Text.)

    (2989)

   See ECONOMIC MOTIVES.


                            SOCIAL RELIGION

Only the selfish man could wish to go to heaven alone. The door of life
is always closed to the man who is not helping some other man on his
journey.

   A priest had a striking dream. He dreamed he had ascended the
   ladder that reached from earth to heaven. Expectantly he knocked
   upon the door. Some one responded, and demanded, “Who is there?”
   Proudly the priest called his name. “Who is with you?” came the
   reply. “No one,” answered the priest; “I am alone.” “Sorry,”
   said the angel, “but we are instructed never to open these gates
   for a single individual.” And, crestfallen and disappointed, he
   descended to earth.

    (2990)


                            SOCIAL STRENGTH

   A constant struggle is going on in nature, and those animals
   best adapted to their conditions will be the ones to survive
   and transmit their superior characteristics to subsequent
   generations. This is natural selection. This same law governed
   man in his early history, and in almost the same way as it
   governs the brute kingdom. From the time that the tribal
   relation is established among men the struggle for existence
   ceases to be one of individuals and becomes one of tribes. It
   little profits an individual to be strong if he belongs to a
   weak tribe; it little profits a tribe to be composed of strong
   individuals if they fail to work in harmony with each other.
   Natural selection will still preserve the strongest, but it
   will be the strongest tribe. It is mutual trust, fidelity,
   honesty, concert in action, patriotism, disregard of death,
   that form the sinews of the nation, personal strength becoming
   a subordinate factor. Wolves hunt in companies, and together
   fearlessly attack animals which would easily master them
   separately. Insects live in communities and tho individually
   they are weak, by concert of action they make themselves
   formidable to the strongest of animals. But the central feature
   of the teaching of Christ was the law of love. It constantly
   appears in His words--now clothed in one parable now in another.
   The new command given to man was to love his enemy, to do good
   to them that hated him, to help the weak, to pardon the erring,
   to resist evil, and to give to him that asked. Henceforth it
   was to be the peacemaker who should be blest, and he who wished
   to be greatest was to be servant of all.--H. W. CONN,
   _Methodist Review_.

    (2991)

   See UNITY, STRENGTH IN.


                       SOCIAL TRAITS IN CHILDREN

   Pedagogs tell us that the plays of children under seven or eight
   are noncompetitive and noncooperative. Kindergarten children
   play side by side or in pairs, rarely spontaneously in groups.
   They are gregarious rather than social. The plays between the
   ages of seven and twelve are social, cooperative and competitive
   games, but each child usually plays for himself. After twelve
   group games with opposing sides are more popular, and finally
   tend to crowd out all others.

    (2992)


                             SOCIAL VANITY

   I read in a Paris paper an interesting account of a reception
   that some of our distinguished friends passing the season in
   Newport gave to a chimpanzee. Of course, it was mortifying to an
   American to have it known by Europeans that my compatriots were
   prepared to confess in that practical way to their belief in the
   evolution theory, and to have it understood in the cultivated
   centers of English and Continental life that over here people
   of advertised refinement could drop into such close relations
   of social reciprocity without either the Newport gentlemen and
   ladies or the chimpanzee feeling themselves insulted by the
   contact. But that first feeling, which of course was one of
   loathing, not for the chimpanzee, but for his companions, soon
   gave place to one which I am sure was more just and wholesome,
   this, namely, a pathetic realization of the horrid sense of
   emptiness which people must be suffering under to be willing to
   fill up the vacuum with material of such an abominably unhuman
   type; like a man so agonizingly hungry that he had rather
   fill himself with carrion than go to bed supperless, and not
   only that, but reduced to such an extreme point of inanition
   as even to acquire an appetite for carrion.--CHARLES H.
   PARKHURST.

    (2993)


                        SOCIETY IS MAN’S PLACE

   The man of the city closes his house, forgets his office and
   goes away. He has a suit of store clothes on him and two linen
   collars in his handbag, but for the rest he carries the garb
   of the vagabond, and getting into this as quick as he can he
   buries his face in the pine-needles and lets the wind and rain
   beat down on his uncovered head and untrimmed beard. And the
   weeks pass; and then happens the stranger thing. Through the
   music of the forest and the harmonies of the falling waters, he
   hears, at first, far away and hardly audible, then ever nearer
   and clearer, the voice of the city he deserted, and to his
   manhood’s spirit that voice speaks with a charm which overcomes
   the woodland’s spell and in another day he is back again, back
   in the old street, to the old work, to the ever dear old city.
   And once more keeping step with the vast army of toilers, he
   knows that not in solitude, but in society, is character made,
   and more, that not nature, but human nature, is God’s best
   handiwork.--T. C. MCCLELLAND.

    (2994)


   =Soil=--See FRUIT AND SOIL.


                           SOLACE OF THE SEA

The following paragraph is the conclusion of James G. Blaine’s eulogy
of President Garfield, and forms one of the finest passages of English
prose:

   Gently, silently, the love of a great people bore the pale
   sufferer to the longed-for healing of the sea, to live or to
   die, as God should will. Within sight of its heaving billows,
   within sound of its manifold voices, with wan, fevered face
   tenderly lifted to the cooling breeze, he looked out wistfully
   upon the ocean’s changing wonders, on its far sails whitening
   in the morning light, on its restless waves rolling shoreward
   to break and die beneath the noonday sun, on the red clouds of
   evening arching low to the horizon, on the serene and shining
   pathway of the stars. Let us think that his dying eyes read a
   mystic meaning, which only the rapt and parting soul may know.
   Let us believe that, in the silence of the receding world,
   he heard the great wave breaking on a farther shore, and felt
   already upon his wasted brow the breath of the eternal morning.

    (2995)


   =Solar Energy=--See ENERGY; UTILIZATION.


                            SOLDIER, A TRUE

   In the midst of a hot engagement, Napoleon asked one of his
   aides about the battle. “Sire,” said he, “this battle is lost,
   but,” pointing with his sword to the sun still an hour high,
   “there is still time enough to win another.”

    (2996)


   =Soldier’s Dying Sentiments=--See ESSENTIALS.


                              SOLIDARITY

   Smith’s family in Brooklyn went on short allowance, the oldest
   son was taken out of college, the two daughters gave up their
   music-teacher, there was no summer vacation. They explained
   that Smith had lost thirty-six thousand dollars on R. & P.
   stock. Smith knew that he had lost this money because he was ten
   minutes late in getting a receipt from the directors.

   On a certain day there were twenty-four directors in the head
   office. They waited vainly for the twenty-fifth. Their half-hour
   delay was costly to Smith and many others.

   Mr. Brown, the twenty-fifth director, was late because his
   clerk had not brought a certain mail package due on the
   one-o’clock express. The clerk came at last with the package;
   the one-o’clock express had arrived late.

   Fifty more plans went wrong because the express was late.
   Men rang up the general manager’s office to complain of the
   annoyance. The manager sent for the conductor. The conductor
   explained that the fault was a “hot box.” Inquiry at Rochester
   traced the hot-box to the inspector and oiler. He had come late
   to his work and was only in time to go over half the wheels of
   the express. The oiler, being questioned, admitted that he was
   late owing to a sick baby, for whom he had been obliged to go
   for a doctor. So, in a way, an oiler’s sick baby, two hundred
   miles away, upset Smith and his family, delayed boards of
   directors, changed Wall Street fortunes. Victor Hugo said that
   at Waterloo “the universe changed front.” But it changes front
   every time we act. If one member suffers, all the members suffer
   with it.

    (2997)

       *       *       *       *       *

The people of the world have a community of interests. Sickness in
the slums of a great city, for instance, breeds disease in the whole
community:

   A man in the city of Chicago was asked why he did not do more
   to better the condition of the working people in the poorer
   sections of the city. “What are they to me?” he heartlessly
   answered. A few weeks later his daughter died of typhoid-fever
   brought to her in clothing made in the sweat-shops which her
   father thought it was not his business to try to do away with.
   (Text.)

    (2998)

   See SENSITIVENESS.


                        SOLIDITY OF OLD TRUTHS

   The fine-grained old truths of religion have been deposited by
   the world’s best life. Its age is theirs; but, altho so many
   epochs and races went to make them, we use them now without
   a thought of their age or of the gravity of getting them
   well-grown; like the beautiful ivory mammoth tusk, sticking six
   or seven feet out of the frozen ground in Alaska, which the
   Indians have used for generations as a hitching-post. Tribes
   come and go, and generations succeed each other; but we all
   hitch up to the solid truths which offer their convenience,
   embedded in the past. (Text.)--JOHN WEISS.

    (2999)


                          SOLITUDE, LESSON OF

   My safety (from madness) lay, as I found, in compressing my
   thoughts to the smallest compass of mental existence, and no
   sooner did worldly visions or memories intrude themselves, as
   they necessarily would, than I immediately and resolutely shut
   them out as one draws the blind to exclude the light. But this
   exclusion of the world created a dark background which served
   only to intensify the light that shone upon me from realms
   unseen of mortal eyes. Lonely I was, yet I was never alone.
   (Text.)--Mrs. MAYBRICK, “My Fifteen Lost Years.”

    (3000)


                         SOLITUDE, TRAINING IN

   A writer tells of a little bird which would not learn to sing
   the song its master would have it sing while its cage was full
   of light. It listened and learned a snatch of this, a trill of
   that, a polyglot of all the songs of the grove, but never a
   separate and entire melody of its own. Then the master covered
   its cage and made it dark; and then it listened and listened
   to the one song it was to sing, and tried, and tried, and tried
   again, until at last its heart was full of it. Then, when it had
   caught the melody, the cage was uncovered, and it sang the song
   sweetly ever after in the light. (Text.)

    (3001)


   =Solving Worry=--See CONTENTMENT.


   =Son Conquered=--See WORSHIPER, A MOTHER.


   =Song=--See PRAISE.


                           SONG AND HUMANITY

   The teacher of music should bear in mind that his subject is
   related to life in a profound and many-sided fashion. The songs
   of home and friendship, of religion and patriotism, have no
   small place in the higher life of humanity. To cite one example:
   I have been present at a Phi Beta Kappa dinner at Harvard when,
   at the close, the company of scholars joined hands and sang
   together Burns’ song of “Auld Lang Syne.” I have heard the
   same song at a company of ministers at a theological seminary
   reunion. After the battle of Manila Bay, where the British and
   American marines fraternized, as the British men-of-war left the
   harbor, the marines of both nations sang the same song. It was
   the music of the plowman-poet that best fitted as a parting-song
   of friendship for the scholar, the theologian, and the marines
   of two great modern nations. Read the tributes to music of noted
   men of letters like Carlyle and Newman. See how they have been
   imprest by this art, which opens into the world of the ear or
   sound--a word which has its artists and poets, its historians
   and dramatists, its architects and builders, as the world
   of letters or of space.--W. SCOTT, “Journal of the
   National Educational Association,” 1905.

    (3002)


                          SONG AND SUFFERING

   It is said of Charlotte Elliott, the author of the “Invalid’s
   Hymn-book,” that tho she lived to enter her eighty-second year,
   she never knew a well day. Her sweet hymns, such as “Just as I
   am without one plea,” were the outpouring of a heart that knew
   what it was to suffer. Like so many other bards, she “learned in
   suffering what she taught in song.” (Text.)

    (3003)


                        SONG AS A WELCOME HOME

   In the mountains of Tyrol it is the custom of the women and
   children to come out when it is the close of day and sing. Their
   husbands, fathers and brothers answer them from the hills on
   their way homeward. On the shores of the Adriatic such a custom
   prevails. There the wives of the fishermen come down about
   sunset and sing a melody, listen for a while for an answering
   melody from off the water, telling that the loved one is almost
   home. How sweet to the weary fisherman, as the shadows gather
   around them, must be the songs of the loved ones at home that
   sing to cheer them, and how they must strengthen and tighten the
   links that bind together these dwellers of the sea.

    (3004)


                            SONG, EFFECTIVE

   An African heathen chief from an inland district was passing a
   mission school in Livingstonia. He heard the children singing
   their simple parting hymn. He sat down and waited till they came
   out. Then he asked the teacher “What were these children doing?”

   “Singing a hymn,” she replied.

   “What is a hymn?” asked the chief; “it has touched my heart. I
   should like the children of my village taught some hymns.”

   There has since been a school established in that chief’s
   village, and the gospel is reaching the people through the
   simple messages carried by the children in song and story.

    (3005)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Thirty men, red-eyed and disheveled, lined up before a judge
   of the San Francisco police court, says The _Youth’s
   Companion_. It was the regular morning company of “drunks
   and disorderlies.” Some were old and hardened, others hung
   their heads in shame. Just as the momentary disorder attending
   the bringing in of the prisoners quieted down, a strange thing
   happened. A strong, clear voice from below began singing:

    “Last night I lay a-sleeping,
    There came a dream so fair.”

   Last night! It had been for them all a nightmare or a drunken
   stupor. The song was such a contrast to the horrible fact that
   no one could fail of the sudden shock at the thought the song
   suggested.

    “I stood in old Jerusalem,
    Beside the temple there.”

   The song went on. The judge had paused. He made a quiet inquiry.
   A former member of a famous opera company, known all over the
   country, was awaiting trial for forgery. It was he who was
   singing in his cell.

   Meantime the song went on, and every man in the line showed
   emotion. One or two dropt on their knees. One boy at the end
   of the line, after a desperate effort at self-control, leaned
   against the wall, buried his face in his folded arms, and
   sobbed, “O mother, mother.”

   The sobs cut the very heart of the men who heard, and the song,
   still welling its way through the court-room, blended in the
   hush. At length one man protested:

   “Judge,” said he, “have we got to submit to this? We’re here to
   take our punishment, but this--” He, too, began to sob.

   It was impossible to proceed with the business of the court, yet
   the judge gave no order to stop the song. The police sergeant,
   after a surprized effort to keep the men in line, stept back and
   waited with the rest. The song moved on to its climax:

    “Jerusalem, Jerusalem! Sing for the night is o’er!
    Hosanna in the highest! hosanna for ever-more!”

   In an ecstasy of melody the last words rang out, and then there
   was a silence.

   The judge looked into the faces of the men before him. There
   was not one who was not touched by the song; not one in whom
   some better impulse was not stirred. He did not call the cases
   singly--a kind word of advice, and he dismissed them all. No man
   was fined or sentenced to the workhouse that morning. The song
   had done more good than punishment could have accomplished.

    (3006)


                           SONG IN THE NIGHT

   Years ago, when the _Ocean Monarch_ was wrecked in the
   English Channel, a steamer was cruising along in the darkness,
   and the captain heard a song, a sweet song, coming over the
   waters, and bearing down in the direction of the voice, he found
   it was a Christian woman on a plank of the wrecked steamer
   singing:

    “Jesus, lover of my soul,
      Let me to thy bosom fly,
    While the nearer waters roll,
      While the tempest still is high.” (Text.)

    (3007)


   =Song of Cheer=--See CHEER, GOOD.


   =Song, Power of=--See LIFE-LINE, HYMN.


                          SONG, THE GOSPEL IN

The ministry of song in modern times has been of incalculable value in
spreading the truths of the Word. Speaking of a city-wide revival in
Boston, a current news item says:

   The city is ringing with revival melodies. Everywhere Mr.
   Alexander’s songs are being hummed and whistled and sung. A
   number of revival hymns have been published in the newspapers,
   and a few days ago two drummers were seated in a train going out
   of Boston, holding a newspaper before them and singing from it
   lustily, “Don’t Stop Praying.” A gentleman who happened to be in
   the same car, which was filled with people, said that he finally
   approached them and asked them if they were ministers. “Oh, no,”
   was the reply, “we are just drummers.” In one of the hotels some
   theatrical women were singing, “He Will Hold Me Fast,” instead
   of their own songs. These are simply indications of the way in
   which the gospel songs have permeated the entire city. (Text.)

    (3008)


   =Songs Born in Trouble=--See NEGLECT OF GENIUS.


                           SONGS THAT ENDURE

George Sylvester Viereck, in “Prisoners of Song,” has these suggestive
lines on the immortality of the song:

    With rumbling thunder and discordance hideous
      The gods and stars shall tumble from the sky,
    But beauty’s curve enmarbled lives in Phidias,
      And Homer’s numbers can not die.

    And when the land is perished, yea,
      When life forsakes us and the rust
    Has eaten bard and roundelay,
      Still from the silence of the dust
    Shall rise the song of yesterday!

    (3009)


                                 SOOT

   The Chicago public laboratories recently made tests to determine
   the amount of soot and dust deposited from the air in that
   city. The acreage deposit, as estimated from samples collected
   at eight different heights during a period of four weeks, was,
   approximately, at the rate of 8.5 tons per acre per year. On
   the Board of Trade Building, 110 feet above the street level,
   the estimated annual deposit was 10.5 tons. On the county
   building, 160 feet above street level, the amount was 7.8 tons,
   and on the Reaper Block, 120 feet above street level, 12.6 tons.
   The situation in Chicago is different only in degree from that
   prevailing in every large city. It would be interesting (and no
   doubt appalling) to know how many tons of soot enter the lungs
   of the inhabitants of our large cities.--_Good Health._

    (3010)


   =Sorrow=--See SUFFERING TRANSFORMED.


                        SORROW FOR A LOST CAUSE

In reminiscences of her husband, General George E. Pickett, of the
Confederate Army, his widow has this to say in regard to the sadness
that filled the Southern heart at the close of the unsuccessful war:

   He (General Pickett) gave his staff a farewell breakfast at
   our home. They did not once refer to the past, but each wore a
   blue strip tied like a sash around his waist. It was the old
   headquarters flag, which they had saved from the surrender and
   torn into strips, that each might keep one in sad memory. After
   breakfast he went to the door, and from a white rose-bush which
   his mother had planted, he cut a bud for each. He put one in my
   hair and pinned one to the coat of each of his officers. Then
   for the first time the tears came, and the men who had been
   closer than brothers for four fearful years clasped hands in
   silence and parted. (Text.)

    (3011)


                             SOUL A UNITY

   The Christian soul is not a department store. It does not
   advertise songs for Sunday, sharp bargains for Monday, doubts
   for Tuesday, worldliness for Wednesday, dishonesty for
   Thursday, compunction for Friday, repentance for Saturday, and
   then songs again for Sunday. No! The Christian soul is not a
   fractional mechanism, but an organism. It is fed by the divine
   sap that flows into it from the true vine. Thus does the glow
   of its life splendor every service it renders. The rich hues
   of its godliness vein the whole of its life as a spiritual
   mosaic.--F. F. SHANNON.

    (3012)


                            SOUL AND NATURE

   The daisy brightening in the shadow of the hedgerow, or strewing
   the fields as with golden flakes; the trees spreading their
   whispering roof of tremulous foliage, or holding against the
   blast their rugged arms, inlocked with a trunk deep-set and
   rooted; brooks, lapsing or leaping from their summit springs;
   the ocean, which takes these to itself, without an added ripple
   on its bays, or an increase of its tides; all sounds, of mirth,
   or suffering, or fear; the drowsy hum of multitudinous insects;
   the arrowy song of birds, swifter than wings, aspiring to the
   skies; all forms and tones of human life; the immeasurable
   azure which is over us everywhere, brilliant with stars, or
   flecked with clouds, or made the blue and boundless realm of
   the victorious sun--all these, and all the visible system which
   these but partly represent, the soul perceives. It goes out to
   them, in its observant, inspecting glance. It meets and hears
   them, if they are vocal, with its attent sense. It apprehends
   them all, arranges them in their natural and obvious order,
   assigns to each its place and service, and lives amid them as in
   a home reared for it and furnitured at the commencement of its
   being.--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (3013)


                              SOUL FLIGHT

    A human soul went forth into the night,
      Shutting behind it Death’s mysterious door,
    And shaking off with strange, resistless might
      The dust that once it wore.
    So swift its flight, so suddenly it sped--
      As when by skillful hand a bow is bent
    The arrow flies--those watching round the bed
      Marked not the way it went.

    Through the clear silence of the moonless dark,
      Leaving no footprint of the road it trod,
    Straight as an arrow cleaving to its mark,
      The Soul went home to God.
    “Alas!” they cried, “he never saw the morn,
      But fell asleep outwearied with the strife”--
    Nay, rather, he arose and met the dawn
      Of everlasting life.

    (3014)


                        SOUL, GREATNESS OF THE

   The mountain is vast in size and weight. The weary feet clamber
   over it painfully. It offers homes along its breast to the
   enterprise which seeks them. Its quarries build palaces, and its
   woods timber navies. It lifts its crown of snow and ice against
   the sky, and stands amid the scene a very monarch of earth,
   primeval and abiding. But the soul can compass that mountain
   in its thought, without weariness or pain; can take it up and
   weigh it, in the balances of exact mathematical computation;
   and spurning it then, as a mere footstool for its activity, can
   spring from it to that boundless expanse amid which the mountain
   is less than is the least of the dust grains of the balance to
   its solid bulk.--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (3015)


   =Soul-growth=--See GROWTH, UNCONSCIOUS.


                      SOUL, HARMONIOUS NATURE OF

   A harp might conceivably be so framed by its maker that every
   string, tho rightly tuned and rightly struck, according to the
   theory and design of the instrument, should emit when touched
   a separate discord. Or it may be so framed, as we know by
   experience, that from it shall flow, when fitly swept by an
   educated hand, the concerted numbers of noble music; inspiring
   the thoughts with their spiritual force, or suffusing the
   very air around us with an audible glory, and making it drop
   benedictions upon us. If the former be the case, we know that
   the instrument was made without design, or else was made with
   malicious intent, to mock with pain where it promised to please.
   Now God has so framed the human soul, in His wise and benevolent
   ordination of its powers, that each of these powers as normally
   employed, according to His plan, gives a separate pleasure.
   If unhappiness comes from them, it is from their wrong use,
   not from their use; from our perversion, and not from our just
   employment of them.--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (3016)


                              SOUL-MUSIC

   During the fame of Ole Bull he played one night before the
   students of Princeton College. It was a wonderful exhibition.
   They marveled, as so many had marveled before them, at the
   strange things which he did with the violin. They heard the
   birds as they warbled among the trees of the forest; they heard
   the storms as they hurled their thunders back and forth among
   the crags of the mountain. Then the tones became so soft and
   sweet they could almost believe a mother was singing her babe
   asleep. When he had finished they gathered about him and said,
   “Tell us the secret.” Ole Bull answered, “It is not in the
   instrument nor the bow, tho I use the best that money can buy.
   It is not primarily in the hand that wields the bow, nor the
   fingers that press the strings. If there is anything to tell, it
   is this: I never play until my own soul is full. Then the music
   is the overflow of the musician’s soul.”

    (3017)


                             SOUL QUERIES

    Does the road wind up-hill all the way?
      Yes, to the very end.
    Will the day’s journey take the whole long day?
      From morn to night, my friend.
    Shall I meet other wayfarers at night?
      Those who have gone before.
    Then must I knock, or call when just in sight?
      They will not keep you standing at the door.
    Shall I find comfort, travel-sore and weak?
      Of labor you shall find the sum.

    --ROSSETTI.

    (3018)


   =Soul-revival=--See CONVERSION.


                           SOUL-SATISFACTION

Ellen Glasgow writes of the contentment of a soul on friendly terms
with itself:

    Since my soul and I are friends,
      I go laughing on my road;
    Whether up or down it wends,
      I have never felt my load.

    (3019)


                             SOUL-SURGERY

   In the corn-field you find the juicy ear overtaken by the deadly
   fungus. The farmer lifts his knife, and cuts away one-half of
   the ear, that he may save the sweet corn on the other half. From
   the prodigal, Jesus cut away his sins, that He might save the
   boy’s soul.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (3020)


                              SOUL, YOUR

   A very little girl, having received some dim impression
   regarding the soul, was asking her mother what it was. “Can you
   feel the soul, mother; can you hear it?” she asked, and then,
   “can you see it?” The mother answered that the soul could not
   be felt or heard, but that sometimes it seemed as if we could
   see it in the eyes. “Let me see yours,” said the little one, and
   gazing into the mother’s dear eyes she saw there the tiny image
   of herself, and exclaimed, “O mother, your soul is a little
   child!”

It would be profitable to all of us if we would ask ourselves this
question, “Is my soul a little child?” (Text.)

    (3021)


                                SOUNDS

   Compared with the Western world, with its indescribable hubbub,
   Korea is a land of the most reposeful silence. There are no
   harsh pavements over which horses are tugging their lives out,
   no jostling of carts or dray-wagons, no hateful clamor that
   forbids quiet conversation, but a repose that is inherent and
   eternally restful. The rattle of the ironing-sticks is not
   nerve-racking, but rather serves as a soporific to put all the
   world to sleep. Apart from this, one hears nothing but the few
   calls and echoes of human voices. What a delightfully quiet land
   is Korea! In the very heart of its great city, Seoul, you might
   experiment at midday in the latest methods of restcure and have
   all the world to help you.--JAMES S. GALE, “Korea in
   Transition.”

    (3022)


                          SOWING AND REAPING

    Plant blessings, and blessings will bloom;
      Plant hate and hate will grow;
    You can sow to-day--to-morrow will bring
    The blossom that proves what sort of a thing
      Is the seed, the seed that you sow. (Text.)

    (3023)


                            SOWING BY SONG

   “What shall the harvest be?” the composition of Mrs. Emily
   Oakey, and as sung by Mr. Sankey, won to Christ and to the
   gospel ministry the Rev. W. O. Lattimore, long pastor in
   Evanston, Ill. Young Lattimore joined the army in 1861 a moral
   youth of eighteen years, but later, a first lieutenant, he fell
   into drink, becoming a physical wreck. But one day in 1876, in
   the gallery of Moody’s Tabernacle in Chicago, dazed from drink,
   the voice of Sankey in this pathetic song aroused in him new
   emotions, particularly the words:

    “Sowing the seed of a lingering pain,
    Sowing the seed of a maddened brain,
    Sowing the seed of a tarnished name,
    Sowing the seed of eternal shame,
      O, what shall the harvest be?”

   The seed was sown--good seed this time; and from the saloon
   to which he withdrew, he returned to the Tabernacle, found a
   Savior, rejoined wife and child whom he had long abandoned, and
   after a successful pastorate of twenty years, died in 1899--a
   whole harvest to the seed-sowing of Christian song.

    (3024)


                           SPACE NOT VACANT

   The idea that the vast spaces between the sun and the various
   planets are void and untenanted now belongs only to the history
   of science. To-day it is known that these spaces are filled
   with vast swarms of minute, dust-like bodies, each and every
   one revolving about the sun in vast ellipses, each one being,
   in fact, a microscopic planet. These bodies make their presence
   known not only as meteors or shooting-stars, but also by their
   power to reflect sunlight, and thus produce the peculiar evening
   glow of the zodiacal light.--CHARLES LANE POOR, “The
   Solar System.”

    (3025)


   =Sparrow and Sermon=--See SERMON, SAVING A.


   =Speaking Extemporaneously=--See TACT.


                           SPEAKING, PUBLIC

   To talk to a crowd of 5,000 people--few living speakers know
   what that means; the expenditure of nervous force, the strain
   on throat and brain, on body and soul. But Wesley did this, not
   only every day, but often twice and three times in a day. He did
   it for fifty years, and the strain did not kill him!

   Gladstone’s Midlothian campaign in 1879 is famous in history;
   but it was confined to a little patch of Scotland; it lasted
   fifteen days, and represented perhaps twenty speeches. But
   Wesley carried on his campaign on a scale which leaves Mr.
   Gladstone’s performances dwarfed into insignificance. He did
   it on the great stage of the three kingdoms, and he maintained
   it without a break for more than fifty years!--W. H.
   FITCHETT, “Wesley and His Century.”

    (3026)

   See TACT.


                          SPEAKING TO DO GOOD

A writer in the London _Mail_ has this to say concerning Theodore
Roosevelt while in Egypt:

   At Cairo he was asked to leave out his reference to the murder
   of the Prime Minister. “No,” he answered, “that is just what
   I want to say. If you do not care about it let us call the
   engagement off.”

   There spoke the essential Roosevelt, not the politician, but the
   preacher. His object in speaking is to do good. To give advice,
   to stiffen healthy instincts, to strengthen public opinion
   against meanness and cruelty, to induce every man and every
   woman to make the best of themselves--those are the essential
   Roosevelt aims. His style smacks more of the pulpit than the
   platform.... “If I had been a Methodist,” he once declared, “I
   should have applied for a license as a lay preacher.” Since then
   he has obtained his license to preach--but from a greater body
   than the Methodist Conference. He is preacher-in-general to the
   whole civilized world.

    (3027)


                                SPEECH

   Compare the golden oriole, swinging in the sunshine, and filling
   the house with flashing melodies, with the infant, moaning in
   his yet inarticulate speech, that lies beneath! The bird was
   made for enjoyment first; for work, subordinately. The infant
   was created for an enjoyment to be realized through fervent
   operation. The bird has a beauty of the Mind which created him.
   The gloss upon his breast, and the brilliance on his wings,
   were put there by God’s pencil. His gushing song warbles a
   tribute to Him who gave him power to sing. But the child has a
   struggling capacity within him, as much grander than this as the
   spiritual and divine are always grander than the physical. He
   hath in his being the germs of speech. And speech can represent
   the most delicate feeling. It can set forth the mightiest
   process of thought. It can furnish an image for all that is
   conceived. It can take up and interpret the very thoughts of the
   infinite, translating them into language for the immortals to
   hear.--RICHARD S. STORRS.

    (3028)

   See SILENCE AND SPEECH.


                        SPEECH AND MISSIONARIES

   We very frequently disgust people because of our seven-by-nine
   vocabulary. When the missionaries first went to the Hawaiian
   Islands it was perfectly proper for them to call the horse the
   “not pig,” because they knew no horse and the newcomers were
   obliged to describe a horse in some way; but it is infantile for
   a missionary in countries where horses are common, because they
   do not happen to know the word for “horse” and do know the words
   for “not pig,” to call a horse the “not pig.” There is too much
   guesswork about that kind of talk, and you offend people by so
   doing.

   Vulgarity of speech is a very common fault with many. We do not
   realize, perhaps, how our language has been purified, but in
   most of the missionary countries the language is vile beyond
   expression. A missionary adopts a word heard because he wants to
   use the language of the people; and he picks up something that
   is very greatly soiled. I recall a meeting that was electrified
   and horrified by a missionary who, in reading a hymn, repeatedly
   used an obscene word through sheer carelessness.--H. P.
   BEACH, “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (3029)


   =Speech and Practise=--See PROFESSION VERSUS CHARACTER.


                            SPEECH, COMMON

   John Wesley believed in the people, and one of the chief secrets
   of his success lay in his power to learn from the masses how
   to speak to them and influence them. On one occasion he was
   walking with his scarcely less famous brother, Charles Wesley,
   the hymn-writer, in a humble street in London, when they came
   face to face with a crowd of fishwomen who were in a row, and
   were cursing and swearing in a most excited fashion. Charles
   Wesley, more timid than his brother, turned to John and said:
   “Brother, let us go up this other street and escape from this
   mob.” But John Wesley thought Charles needed more contact with
   the people, and taking him by both shoulders faced around toward
   the quarreling women, saying, “You stand there, Charles Wesley,
   and learn how to preach!”--_Everybody’s Magazine._

    (3030)


   =Speech, The Effect of Earnest=--See EARNESTNESS.


   =Speed=--See SWIFTNESS OF BIRDS.


   =Speed in Travel=--See TRAVELING, PROGRESS IN.


   =Speed Increased by Reducing Delays=--See DELAY.


   =Speed, Sensation of=--See OBSTACLES.


                         SPEED, THE SECRET OF

In attacking some evils the best way to sweep them down, is often to
use our greatest bulk and energy at the outset; as a ship, according
to M. C. L. Meyher, moves fastest when the bow is made larger than the
stern.

   It should be noted in passing that all creatures that are
   called upon to move rapidly through a fluid are much slenderer
   behind than before, and it should be added that forms that
   are too slender in front are quite unsuited for great speeds.
   This may easily be demonstrated, but would take us too far
   from our subject for the moment. We should only say that it is
   difficult to understand why designers so often persist in giving
   to vessels forms that are more slender in the bow than in the
   stern, when the contrary should be the case.--_Revue Generale
   des Sciences._

    (3031)


   =Spelling at Fault=--See ILLITERACY.


                              SPHINX, THE

    Out of the changeful fury of the tide-rifts streaming by
    Wilt build thee, O world, a place of peace, and show God by and by?
    Or all the riot of roses and the loves that escape control,
    Are they rainbows shed on a melting cloud from the central sun of
      my soul?

    O musical storms and stars, do ye strike wild chords unplanned?
    Or is there a master-musician, who leads with uplifted hand?
    If a God’s will shape the heavens, is He perfect, boundless, free?
    Or feel He the bondage of violent dust? Does He suffer and strive
      like me?

    I know that I never shall answer the riddles that haunt the mind,
    I see but a spark of the infinite flame--to all the rest born
      blind.
    Yet envy I not the gazers who boast of their clearer sight;
    For safer I walk if I know I am blind, than calling the darkness
      light.

    For all my riddle unanswered, for all my blindness known,
    I would rather keep asking the secret than to make it all my own.
    I believe that the stir of the questions is the spirit’s ultimate
      breath.
    All life is a passionate question. Wilt thou not answer it, Death?

    --THEODORE C. WILLIAMS, _Unity_.

    (3032)


   =Spiders and Music=--See MUSIC AND SPIDERS.


   =Spider as a Barometer=--See INDICATOR, AN INSECT.


   =Spiders, The Value of=--See BALANCE PRESERVED IN NATURE.


                            SPIRIT AND FORM

   Religion may be compared to a banana. The real heart religion
   is the juicy pulp; the forms and ceremonies are the skin. While
   the two are united and undivided the banana keeps good until it
   is used. And so it is with religion. Separate the forms from the
   spirit, and the one will be of no more value than the banana
   husk, while the latter will speedily decay and become corrupt,
   apart from the outward expression.--ARTHUR T. PIERSON.

    (3033)


                           SPIRIT, FRUIT OF

   How beautiful on paper are the flowers delineated in many a
   seedman’s catalog, but what disappointment sometimes ensues
   when it is found that their actual growth comes far short of
   the printed description! It is never so with the fruits of the
   Spirit, of which Paul gives a list. All the grace described
   in his catalog brings forth glory that answers fully to the
   promise. The divine Spirit never disappoints and the grace of
   God can not fail. (Text.)

    (3034)


   =Spirit Manifestation a Power=--See CONSISTENCY.


                         SPIRIT MORE THAN BODY

   One of America’s prominent astronomers is only four feet high,
   and would hardly outweigh a boy of ten years. But there are few
   who could outweigh him in intellect and achievement. Alexander
   H. Stephens, with a dwarf’s body, did a giant’s work. With only
   a broken scythe, by sheer force of will and work, he overmatched
   in the harvest those who had fine mowing-machines.

    (3035)


                         SPIRIT, THE SPARK OF

   Recently, I visited Fort Monroe and was taken through those
   interesting barracks. An officer pointing out a great gun said
   to me, “With that we could tear to pieces yonder wall of stone
   and destroy many lives thousands of yards away.” A friend
   standing near said, “Not so, that gun in itself is powerless.”
   “Oh,” the officer exclaimed, “of course, we must first place
   the powder and the shell in it, and then the disastrous work
   will be done.” The reply was made, “All of your guns and powder
   and shell are absolutely powerless to make any impression in
   themselves. There is one thing lacking.” “Yes,” he said, “but a
   spark of fire would hurl forth the missile of death and bring
   about the great destruction.” We may have big guns in the
   pulpit, and in the pew, we may have the finest machinery and
   external equipment; but unless we have the fire of the Spirit
   we can never shatter the strongholds of Satan and bring in the
   reign of our spiritual King.--H. ALLEN TUPPER.

    (3036)


                         SPIRIT, WINDS OF THE

Many a pilgrim has been lost in the world’s deserts. A wanderer who
had lost his bearing in a wilderness, altho he had in his hand a
compass, knew not whether its needle pointed toward a place of rest and
refreshment, or only to a spot where he might lie down in despair.

   He sank down on the arid sand. But presently a green leaf was
   wafted close to his feet. On seeing that it was perfectly green
   and fresh, he reasoned that it must have come from some not
   distant place where water, shade, and food could be found, and
   of course the breeze indicated the right direction. Facing the
   wind he soon discovered an oasis where he quenched his thirst at
   a spring.

So the promises from the word of God, fresh with the dew of the Spirit
of life, flutter to us on what seems to be the chance currents of
life. Often thus when our hearts are weary, and joy has faded, and
hope is weak, we are encouraged with revived strength and are made to
understand which way to turn.

    (3037)


   =Spirit’s Permanence=--See RECORD, LIVING.


   =Spirit’s Presence, The=--See PRESENCE OF GOD.


                           SPIRITS, WATCHING

The influence exerted by belief in invisible presences is illustrated
by Mr. Lafcadio Hearn, who says that it is extremely difficult for a
Western mind to apprehend the full meaning of ancestor-worship as a
family religion, and cites as the nearest parallel the nature of the
old Greek piety:

   Each member of the family supposes himself or herself under
   perpetual ghostly surveillance. Spirit eyes are watching every
   act; spirit ears are listening to every word. Thoughts, too,
   not less than deeds, are visible to the gaze of the dead; the
   heart must be pure, the mind must be under control, within the
   presence of the spirits. Probably the influence of such beliefs,
   uninterruptedly exerted upon conduct during thousands of years,
   did much to form the charming side of Japanese character. (Text.)

    (3038)


                         SPIRITISTIC PHENOMENA

In an article on apparitions written by Andrew Lang, in the second
volume of the “Encyclopedia Britannica,” ninth edition, he says:

   “The writer once met, as he believed, a well-known and learned
   member of an English university who was really dying at a place
   more than a hundred miles distant from that in which he was
   seen.”

   To determine whether or not it was a case of mistaken identity
   is very important, but no opportunity is given in the passage
   quoted. If it was a subjective impression, the coincidence
   would be curious and nothing else; and not more so than many
   coincidences in trifles, and many other circumstances absolutely
   disconnected, and many subjective impressions without any
   coincidences. Mr. Lang refers to the superstitious horror shown
   by a dog at the moment of a supposed apparition to his master.
   That the dog exhibited horror when his owner thought he saw
   an apparition may be readily believed. Any one familiar with
   dogs knows that nothing will terrify them more than a great
   appearance of alarm on the part of their masters without any
   visible cause. Of the same nature is the remark concerning
   the mysterious disturbances at the house of the Wesleys. “The
   mastiff was more afraid than any of the children.” The volatile
   imagination of children have never shown any great horror of
   the mysteries; they were sustained, too, by confidence in their
   parents. But the dog heard mysterious noises, which naturally
   greatly agitated him. Many persons fancy that mysterious
   noises that will appear to respond to questions, to make raps
   or answer raps, conclusively prove that they are directed by
   intelligence. Sometimes they may, and the intelligence is quite
   likely to be of human origin; but the noises of atmospheric,
   chemical, or electrical origin may furnish astonishing
   coincidences, just as the fissures in the rocks are extremely
   difficult to be distinguished from hieroglyphics. Some years ago
   an alphabet based on the spiritualistic alphabet was applied
   to the successive gusts of wind of a stormy autumn day, and
   the coincidences were astonishing. Whole sentences of a very
   significant character at times appeared to respond to the
   arbitrary standard. And in any case the conclusion that a noise,
   the cause of which is not yet understood, must be supernatural
   is a process of reasoning _ab ignorantia_.--J. M.
   BUCKLEY, _Century_.

    (3039)


   =Spiritual Culture=--See APPRECIATION, SPIRITUAL.


                         SPIRITUAL DECLENSION

   “Come, Thou Fount of Every Blessing” issued from the consecrated
   genius of Robert Robinson, a native of Norfolk, England, who was
   converted under Whitefield’s powerful preaching, and himself
   became a minister of the gospel.

   It was while on a stage journey once, in company with an unknown
   lady passenger, that he heard her begin singing the above lyric
   to divert her attention, when he said to her: “Madam, I am the
   unhappy man who wrote that hymn many years ago; and I would
   give a thousand worlds if I had them, if I could feel as I felt
   then.” (Text.)

    (3040)


   =Spiritual Development=--See MOODS OF THE SPIRIT.


                           SPIRITUAL GUNNERY

   After carefully loading his gun for the kind of game which seems
   to require his immediate and special attention, the spiritual
   gunner should be sure to take particularly good aim at it. A
   good aim is an essential to success. The gunner who aims at
   nothing in particular, who closes both eyes and fires at random,
   will hit nothing in particular, unless it be by accident, and
   will receive no commendation for his skill. In fact, he is
   very apt to hit what he does not wish to hit, and what he will
   do more harm than good by hitting. Again, in these days sin
   and sinners--the game the spiritual gunner is after--are so
   uncommonly lively that they must be hit on the wing, if hit
   at all. The spiritual gunner must, therefore, learn to aim
   accurately at “arm’s length,” and quickly. If he trusts to a
   “dead rest” aim, the game will be very apt to get out of range
   before his gun goes off, and his work and ammunition will both
   be wasted--and that is not creditable to a gunner. Long-range
   shooting should also be avoided, and the gunner should quietly
   work his way as near as possible to his game and fire at the
   shortest possible range. A well-loaded gun, fired at short-range
   and with steady aim, will generally hit the mark and do
   execution.--_The Evangelist._

    (3041)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The spiritual gunner who has a reasonably fair appreciation
   of his important and responsible business will not try to use
   the same kind of gun for all kinds of game. He will adapt his
   gun to the kind of game he has specially in view, and he will
   always have in view game of some kind if he is anxious to become
   “a mighty hunter before the Lord.” He will not bring out a
   loaded Armstrong, or Columbiad, or Gatling for very small game
   and reserve his smallest arms for game of the largest and most
   dangerous kind if he wishes to bear home any trophies of his
   working skill. Every professional gunner--every pulpit gunner
   especially--who wishes to do efficient work will not only have
   large guns and small guns ready loaded, where he can lay his
   hands on them at once, but will know just when and how to use
   each kind. He will also be careful not to use kicking guns and
   overloaded guns, which always do a great deal more harm to
   those behind them than they do to those just in front. A gun
   that shoots straight ahead without much scattering, instead of
   backward or sideways, that is well aimed, and that carries true
   to its aim, is the only gun for the spiritual hunter, whether it
   be large or small.--_The Evangelist._

    (3042)


                          SPIRITUAL NOBILITY

A touching tribute to one of nature’s noblewomen appeared in the
_Pall Mall Gazette_:

    She walks unnoticed in the street.
      The casual eye
    Sees nothing in her fair or sweet.
      The world goes by
    Unconscious that an angel’s feet
      Are passing nigh.

    She little has of beauty’s wealth,
      Truth will allow;
    Only her priceless youth and health,
      Her broad, white brow;
    Yet grows she on the heart by stealth,
      I scarce know how.

    She does a thousand kindly things
      That no one knows.
    A loving woman’s heart she brings
      To human woes,
    And to her face the sunlight clings
      Where’er she goes.

    And so she walks her quiet ways
      With that content
    That only comes to sinless days
      And innocent.
    A life devoid of fame or praise,
      Yet nobly spent. (Text.)

    (3043)


                        SPIRITUAL PERTURBATION

   After Bunyan’s marriage the record of the next few years is like
   a nightmare, so terrible is his spiritual struggle. One day he
   feels himself an outcast; the next the companion of angels; the
   third he tries experiments with the Almighty in order to put his
   salvation to the proof. As he goes along the road to Bedford he
   thinks he will work a miracle, like Gideon with his fleece. He
   will say to the little puddles of water in the horses’ tracks,
   “Be ye dry”; and to all the dry tracks he will say, “Be ye
   puddles.” As he is about to perform the miracle a thought occurs
   to him. “But go first under yonder hedge and pray that the Lord
   will make you able to perform a miracle.” He goes promptly and
   prays. Then he is afraid of the test, and goes on his way more
   troubled than before.

   After years of such struggle, chased about between heaven and
   hell, Bunyan at last emerges into a saner atmosphere, even as
   Pilgrim came out of the horrible Valley of the Shadow. Soon,
   led by his intense feelings, he becomes an open-air preacher,
   and crowds of laborers gather about him on the village green.
   They listen in silence to his words; they end in groans and
   tears; scores of them amend their sinful lives.--WILLIAM J.
   LONG, “English Literature.”

    (3044)


   =Spiritual Power the True Estimate=--See MEASUREMENT,
      SPIRITUAL.


                           SPIRITUAL VALUES

Jesus asked, “How much is a man better than a sheep?” Here are some
estimates:

   The deepest needs of the world are spiritual needs. One man
   invested $100,000 in India. It resulted in the conversion of
   50,000 in that district--one soul saved for every two dollars
   invested. Christ’s standard of greatness was service. On the
   Kongo a man’s value is estimated in cattle; on the Hudson, in
   social standing; but by the river of life, by what he is, and
   the standard is helpfulness.

    (3045)


                        SPIRITUALITY, RATIONAL

   On some clear evening when the stars shrink back before the
   pathway of the ascending moon, and night is almost transformed
   to day, we are moved to admiration and pleasure; yet all this
   attractive light, focused to the smallest compass, could not
   dissolve the most delicate petal of frost or melt the tiniest
   snowflake.

Such is science without sentiment, the intellect without the heart,
religion without spirituality. But on the other hand, the true church
is one which combines both; which is purely rational, yet deeply
religious; which is perfectly tolerant and catholic; which yet extends
its fraternal hand to the needy, opprest, and downtrodden of every
class; which is bound to no creed whatsoever, but is genuinely,
rationally, vitally spiritual.--GEORGE C. CRESSEY.

    (3046)


                        SPRING AS TYPE OF LIFE

    When I am gone, somehow I hope that spring
    Will typify my life, my optimism,
    My hope of victory through the years,
    My nerve of step, my clear and visioned eye.
    The early flowers, the robins singing in
    The rain (may they not sing since they have wings?),
    The increasing light, the slowly opening buds,
    The almond blooms, the trees in vernal dress
    Are like the silver crown upon my head:
    A prophecy of heaven’s summer time.
    Yes, when I die, it shall be springtime then
    Of my great immortality.

    When I am gone, let men say, He was always young;
    Not even Sorrow, with his ruthless plow;
    Nor base ingratitude, nor brothers false,
    Nor slander’s venomed tooth, nor poverty,
    Could rend rude furrows in his springlike soul
    That soon arrayed itself with lovely vines
    And fragrant flowers that added beauties new
    To one who, ripe in years, knew not old age.

    --_Western Christian Advocate._

    (3047)


                           SPRINGS FROM GOD

   You remember the masonry in Prospect Park (Brooklyn), built to
   hold that huge bank in its place? Well, when that solid wall
   was completed, a hidden spring broke out, and the walls moved
   and cracked. Pulling the masonry down a second time, it was
   again rebuilt. This time a little drain tube and faucet were
   put in. But the mouth became stopt up, and a second time the
   pressure of the hidden waters moved the wall. Then another tube
   and pipe were put through the wall. What was the power that put
   such immeasurable pressure upon masonry and moved it? It was
   the hidden water--silently, steadily, irresistibly, crowding
   all before it. To-day the hidden waters may manifest themselves
   through one tube, and to-morrow they may gush through another
   tube, but the power is in the water and the reservoir behind
   it, and not in the tube through which it appears. And that
   power that lifted the Hebrew slaves and swept them forward and
   buoyed them up, now revealed itself through the lips of Moses,
   and now speaks through the life of Joshua, transforming the
   people, is not in Moses, nor in Joshua, it is in God.--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (3048)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Salvation is by character, but character is the gift of God.
   Far up on the northeastern coast of Maine there is a little
   spring; through all the hours of a sunny afternoon it poured its
   crystal flood that ran singing toward the sea. Then, the briny
   sea turned to a salt the spring. The waves with their bitterness
   came in and buried it, and the sweet water seemed lost forever.
   Then in the eastern sky God hung His orb of light, and silently
   by that invisible pull, and with its secret voice it called to
   the waves of salt, and drew back the briny flood with its mire
   and filth, that ebbed away, and lo, the little spring flowed on,
   fed by the pure fountains on the hillside far above the ocean’s
   brine. And the soul’s life comes down from the mountains, where
   its hidden springs are in God. Aspiration, hope and love gush
   on forever pure. Temptations may rise, like the tide. Troubles,
   ingratitudes and hatreds may sweep on like hungry waves, the
   world may cast up its mire, but soon these troubles will recede,
   and leave the spring of life within the soul, to gush forth once
   more. It is the river of God, the well that springs up into
   everlasting life.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (3049)


                            SPRINGS OF LIFE

In ancient pagan religions there was a peculiar sacredness attached
to running water in springs or rivers. The famous oracle of Delphi
was beside the Castalian spring; and in the haunted grotto of Egeria,
inspired by the murmurs of its beautiful fountain, the first king of
Rome received from the celestial nymph the laws and the religious rites
which he imparted to the primitive community. Rivers in prehistoric
times were everywhere worshiped; shrines were erected on their banks,
and they had priests of their own. Men swore by them, for the spirit of
the waters could drown those who proved false to their word; and the
most awful form of oath is that which the Hindu still takes who swears
by a divine river more sacred even than the Ganges--of which the Ganges
is only an earthly manifestation. The office of the Hebrew prophets
received its name in the original from a root signifying the bursting
forth and the overflowing of a copious fountain. As the spring bursts
forth from the heart of the rock in full flood, so the inspiration of
God bursts forth from the heart of the prophet. This origin of the name
would indicate that springs and rivers were at first chosen as the
medium of a divine revelation--_The Quiver._

    (3050)


   =Spurious Virtue=--See PRETENSE.


   =Stage to Pulpit=--See EVANGELISM, UNUSUAL.


                               STAGNANCY

   Sailors tell us that there is a dead spot in the Caribbean Sea.
   It lies midway between Carthagena in Columbia and Kingston,
   Jamaica. It is out of the track of steamers and the action of
   the great currents going one way and another has left a space of
   stagnant water without any real movement at all. Anything that
   gets into “the dead spot” is apt to stay there unless driven
   out by some big storm, and will simply drift round and round,
   gathering sea-grass and barnacles.

Is there not “a dead spot” in the sea of life, a place out of the
currents of earnest activities where souls drift and gather worthless
accretions? (Text.)

    (3051)


                                STAINS

    The three ghosts on the lonesome road
      Spake each to one another,
    “Whence came that stain about your mouth
      No lifted hand may cover?”
    “From eating of forbidden fruit,
      Brother, my brother.”

    The three ghosts on the sunless road
      Spake each to one another,
    “Whence came that red burn on your foot
      No dust nor ash may cover?”
    “I stamped a neighbor’s hearth-flame out,
      Brother, my brother.”

    The three ghosts on the windless road
      Spake each to one another,
    “Whence came that blood upon your hand
      No other hand may cover?”
    “From breaking of a woman’s heart,
      Brother, my brother.”

    “Yet on the earth clean men we walked,
      Glutton and Thief and Lover;
    White flesh and fair it hid our stains
      That no man might discover.”
    “Naked the soul goes up to God,
      Brother, my brother.”

    --THEODOSIA GARRISON, _Zion’s Herald_.

    (3052)


                               STANDARDS

   For measuring a base line (in calculating a parallax) metal bars
   or rods are used. These are carefully compared in the laboratory
   with the standards and their lengths at a definite temperature
   determined. Unfortunately, when these rods are taken into the
   field for actual use they are exposed to constantly varying
   temperatures, and they expand and contract in a very troublesome
   way. Various devices have been used to eliminate the errors thus
   introduced, the simplest and best being the Woodward “ice-bar
   apparatus” used by the Coast and Geodetic Survey. In this the
   metal measuring-bar is supported in a trough and completely
   packed in ice, and thus maintained at the uniform temperature
   of 32 degrees Fahr. With such an apparatus a base line can
   be measured with an error of only a fortieth of an inch in a
   mile, or one part in two and a half million.--CHARLES LANE
   POOR, “The Solar System.”

    (3053)

   See EXCELLENCE IS COMPARATIVE.


   =Standing by the Ship=--See LOYALTY.


   =Stars and Stripes, Disrespect to the=--See PATRIOTISM,
      LACK OF.


   =Stars Converting a Skeptic=--See CONVERTED BY THE COMET.


   =Stars, Gate of the=--See GATE, THE, OF STARS.


   =State, The, More Than the Individual=--See REPRESENTATIVE DIGNITY.


                         STATESMAN ON MISSIONS

   In visiting India, Hon. Charles W. Fairbanks, former
   vice-president of the United States, took pains to aline himself
   with the Christian missionary movement in that country. In
   a public address he said: “I believe the greatest influence
   to-day--I speak from the standpoint of a layman but with
   measured utterance--is the Christian religion. The largest
   progress made in America has been under the influence of men
   who have been profound believers in the Bible and its thoughts.
   And what I say of America may also be said of other Christian
   nations; the experience of one is the experience of another.
   I wish to express my profound admiration--it goes beyond mere
   respect--for the workers in the great missionary field. I
   have seen many a work; I have seen the rich, abundant harvest
   they have gathered and are gathering. They are evangels of a
   new order of things. They are doing much to knit the peoples
   together, and have earned their right to the gratitude of
   mankind for their noble self-sacrifice.”

    (3054)


                             STATESMANSHIP

The _Manchester Guardian_, in an editorial on the one hundredth
anniversary of Gladstone’s birth (December 29), had the following fine
appreciation of the great statesman’s international spirit:

   To him the line of State boundaries formed no limit beyond which
   the writ of conscience ceased to run. He held national duties
   to be as sacred as personal duties, and judged national honor
   by the same standard as personal honor. From the debate on the
   opium war in 1840 to the last speech on behalf of the dying
   Armenians in 1896, Gladstone maintained this ideal in the face
   of Europe. He could not always carry it through against his
   own colleagues in government. No man at the head of affairs can
   have his way in all things; but he closed his public career
   by resigning office rather than associate himself with an
   increase of armaments which he judged unnecessary, and therefore
   injurious to the cause with which his name is indelibly
   associated.

    (3055)


                            STATIC PROGRESS

   Life is not always by motion; sometimes it is improved by
   waiting. The boat in the lock stands still in order to be lifted
   higher.

    (3056)


   =Stationary Lives=--See MARKING TIME.


   =Stationary, The Effect of Things=--See INFLUENCE.


   =Statistics, Divorce=--See DIVORCE.


   =Statistics of Churches=--See CHURCH STATISTICS.


   =Statistics of Sunday-schools=--See SUNDAY-SCHOOL STATISTICS.


   =Statues, The Value of=--See BEAUTIFUL, INFLUENCE OF THE.


   =Stature and Situation=--See DISPROPORTION.


   =Stature not Greatness=--See GREATNESS.


                       STEADINESS OF PROVIDENCE

In a poem, “The World Runs On,” Edmund Vance Cook, in _The
Independent_, thus expresses the calm steadiness of God’s
providences:

    So many good people find fault with God,
      Tho admitting He’s doing the best He can,
    But still they consider it somewhat odd
      That He doesn’t consult them concerning His plan.
    But the sun sinks down and the sun climbs back,
    And the world runs round and round its track.

    Or they say God doesn’t precisely steer
      This world in the way they think it best,
    And if He would listen to them, He’d veer
      A hair to the sou’ sou’west by west.
    But the world sails on and it never turns back
    And the Mariner makes never a tack.

    So many good people are quite inclined
      To favor God with their best advices,
    And consider they’re something more than kind
      In helping Him out of critical crises.
    But the world runs on, as it ran before,
    And eternally shall run evermore.

    So many good people, like you and me,
      Are deeply concerned for the sins of others,
    And conceive it their duty that God should be
      Apprised of the lack in erring brothers.
    And the myriad sun-stars seed the skies
    And look at us out of their calm, clear eyes.
    (Text.)

    (3057)


                            STEADY WORKING

   Among the country boys who pick berries there are two kinds:
   one keeps steadily picking through thick and thin, moving only
   when there are no berries in sight; and the other one runs about
   looking for the places where berries are thick. But the boy of
   the first kind is the first one to fill his pail.

    (3058)


                             STEDFASTNESS

   It was the standing of Jackson’s brigade so firmly as to attract
   the attention of a Confederate officer at Bull Run that led the
   soubriquet to be applied to him of “Stonewall” Jackson. (Text.)

    (3059)

       *       *       *       *       *

    Be firm! One constant element in luck
    Is genuine, solid, old Teutonic pluck;
    See yon tall shaft; it felt the earthquake’s thrill,
    Clung to its base, and greets the sunrise still.

    --O. W. HOLMES.

    (3060)


                             STEPS UPWARD

   When one is climbing a mountain whose lofty peak he has long
   admired from a distance there is an arduous ascent and one with
   many steps to be made; but how good and wholesome is the way.
   The path which winds through grassy meadows, the bridge which
   crosses the rushing stream pouring down from the heights, the
   slow and toilful ascent, repaid by the purer air and the rarer
   flowers and the wider vision, over obstacles, and then, at last,
   the height itself, different from the rest only in this, that
   it is the culmination! There can be no Parnassus without the
   steps that lead to it.--GEORGE CLARK COE.

    (3061)


   =Stewardship=--See CLAIM, GOD’S.


                            STICKING TO IT

   A friend, a former colleague of mine, told me that he was, many
   years ago, traveling up to London with an owner of race horses
   who was accompanied by his trainer. When they arrived at the
   station near the metropolis where the tickets are collected,
   the ticket-collector came, and my friend said, “My servant has
   my ticket in the next carriage.” The ticket-collector retired
   and presently came back rather angry and said, “I can not find
   him.” My friend said, “He is in the next carriage--or the next
   carriage but one; he is there.” As soon as the ticket-collector
   retired for the second time the trainer leaned forward and
   said, “Stick to it, my lord, you will tire him out.”--Lord
   HERSCHELL.

    (3062)


                               STIGMATA

   Francis, Duke of Guise, bore the common name of _Le Balafré_,
   or “The Scarred.” In a skirmish with the English invaders
   he received a wound the most severe from which any one ever
   recovered. A lance entered above the right eye, declining toward
   the nose, and piercing through on the other side, between the
   nape and the ear. The weapon was broken off, a part remaining in
   the dreadful wound. The surgeon took the pincers of a blacksmith
   and tore out the barbed iron, leaving a frightful scar which was
   shown as a signal badge of honor.

When Thomas tested the wounds of the risen Savior he cried, “My Lord
and my God.”

    (3063)


   =Stimulus=--See OPPOSITION; SOCIAL CHRISTIANITY.


                         STIMULUS FROM RIVALRY

   Social rivalry brings its rich compensations. It is so with the
   international rivalry. America and Australia at this moment are
   sending into this country (England) corn, meats, fruits, and
   our farmers declare that they are being ruined. But the fact
   is men have to be ruined that they may be made over again, and
   fashioned on a grander pattern. Our husbandmen will be compelled
   to put away all droning; they must go to school again, they
   must invent new methods, they must adopt new machines, sow
   choicer seeds, breed superior cattle; they must grub up the old
   canker-eaten, lichen-laden orchards, and plant fresh fruit-trees
   of the best varieties. The pressure of the times will lift the
   national husbandry to a higher plane. And this international
   rivalry will have the same stimulating effect on city
   life.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (3064)


   =Stomach Contraction=--See ADAPTATION.


   =Stones, Comparing=--See COMMON THINGS.


   =Stored Energy=--See RESERVE POWER.


                      STORY, THE POWER OF THE OLD

   Do you remember the story of Paul Du Chaillu, the great African
   traveler, in the heart of the Dark Continent? On one occasion he
   told the “old, old story” to a poor slave woman; then he went on
   his way and forgot all about the incident. He came back a few
   months later to that town and the slave-traders had just made a
   raid on it. In the fight this woman was injured. She sent for
   him and he went to see her. As he knelt down beside her, she
   said, “Tell it again.” “Tell what again?” he said. “Oh, tell
   me that story again.” Then once more he told her the old, old
   story of Jesus and His love. As he finished it, she said to
   him, “Is it true?” “Yes,” he replied, “it is true.” “Do your
   people believe that?” “Yes, they believe that.” “Oh,” she said,
   “tell them to send us that story a little faster.”--A. S.
   WILSON, “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (3065)


                          STRAIGHT CHARACTER

   “Is he straight?”

   “Straight as a gun-barrel. You can depend upon him in every spot
   and place.”

   This was said of a boy who had asked for a place and had given
   as a reference the gentleman who made this firm reply.

   How straight is a gun-barrel? In the factory where guns are made
   the metal is rolled and prest and ground and polished until the
   most practised eye can not detect the slightest curve in it
   anywhere. Not until it is so can it be permitted to go out of
   the factory. Over and over again it must be tested and tried
   until it is as perfect as men and machines can make it. If the
   gun-barrel were not straight, no one ever could hit what he
   aimed at; the bullet could not help flying wide of the mark.

   And hitting the mark is the thing. “Straight” is a homely word,
   but it is full of the deepest meaning. No one can ever reach
   his aim, be it ever so high, unless he always does the true,
   manly thing. One little mean, underhanded act, and his life
   may be marred forever. The world wants men who are straight.
   (Text.)--EDGAR L. VINCENT, _The Visitor_.

    (3066)


                            STRAIN, NERVOUS

Jack Tattersall, the wireless man of the steamship _Baltic_, which
went to the aid of the _Republic_ on January 23, 1909, is said to
have sat at his key for 52 hours. In relating his experience he said:

   It wasn’t the actual work that bothered me, you know. That’s not
   so difficult.

   No; it’s the awful nervous strain of striving, always striving,
   to get the message right, when half a dozen gigantic batteries
   are jerking flashes to you at the same time, drowning each other
   out, pounding in your ears, making the night seem to swarm with
   sparks before your eyes. That’s what gets on a man’s nerves;
   that’s what makes you next to insane. I hardly knew what to do,
   with the _Republic_ signaling me, faintly, so faintly that
   I could not make out whether they were saying, “We are sinking,”
   or “All safe.” (Text.)

   (3067)


                          STRATAGEM BY BIRDS

   A gentleman had a fine setter-dog who was accustomed to take
   his daily bone, with due allowance of meat adhering, to the
   lawn to enjoy at his leisure. On one occasion he observed
   several magpies planning to get a share of the dainty. They
   quietly approached the dog and placed themselves one at the
   head, about two feet from the animal, who was too busy to notice
   them, a second near the tail, and one or two by his side. When
   all were placed, the bird near the dog’s tail gave a sudden
   nip to that member. The dog, of course, wheeled to catch the
   offender, who fled, while his hungry comrades rushed to the
   bone, hastily snatching what they could. The fleeing magpie led
   the outraged dog to some distance, drawing him on by fluttering
   as if injured, without really taking flight.--OLIVE THORNE
   MILLER, “The Bird Our Brother.”

    (3068)


                      STRATAGEM TO ESCAPE ENEMIES

   One of his (the fox’s) favorite tricks is to cross over deep
   water on thin ice just strong enough to bear him, knowing that
   in all probability the hounds will break through, and perhaps be
   swept under the ice if the current is strong enough. More than
   one valuable dog has been drowned in this manner, but I have
   never known a fox to miscalculate the strength of the ice and
   break through himself. If the stream is not wholly frozen over,
   he runs along at the very edge of the deep water, where the ice
   is thin and treacherous, until he comes to a place where he can
   jump across to the thin ice that reaches out from the opposite
   bank.--WITMER STONE and WILLIAM EVERETT CRAM,
   “American Animals.”

    (3069)


                               STRATEGY

The best strategy in life is frequently to take advantage of an enemy’s
mistakes.

   In Mark Twain’s “Autobiography,” in the _North American
   Review_, is General Grant’s own opinion in regard to the
   inception of Sherman’s march to the sea.

   “Neither of us originated the idea of Sherman’s march to the
   sea. The enemy did it,” said Grant.

   He went on to say that the enemy necessarily originated a great
   many of the plans that the general on the opposite side gets the
   credit for. In this case, Sherman had a plan all thought out,
   of course. He meant to destroy the two remaining railroads in
   that part of the country, and that would finish up that region.
   But General Hood made a dive at Chattanooga. This left the march
   to the sea open to Sherman, and so, after sending part of his
   army to defend and hold what he had acquired in the Chattanooga
   region, he was perfectly free to proceed with the rest of it
   through Georgia. He saw the opportunity, and he would not have
   been fit for his place if he had not seized it.

    (3070)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Grant was always aggressive. It was not possible with him that
   retreat, or any inaction could form any part of his program. But
   while the campaign from Culpepper to Cold Harbor was boldly,
   even daringly, offensive, it was so conducted that in nearly
   every conflict the enemy was obliged to become the attacking
   party; and this plan of campaign against Lee recalls this
   colloquy between two Roman generals: “If thou art a great
   general come down and fight me.” “If thou art a great general
   make me come down and fight thee.” And it will be observed that
   four times out of five--for the army had fought on five distinct
   lines--Grant, by a single march, had made Lee come down and
   fight him.--NICHOLAS SMITH, “Grant, the Man of Mystery.”

    (3071)

       *       *       *       *       *

This is the fable of a spider as quoted from _Blackwood’s
Magazine_:

   A spider, it seems, had occasion to borrow a sum of money.
   A journey round to the generously disposed brought him two
   thousand cowries each from the cat, the dog, the hyena, the
   leopard, and the lion. When pay-day came round, the spider
   remained at home to receive the visits of the creditors in
   a certain prearranged order. First came the cat to claim
   repayment of his loan. “Hush!” said the spider. “I hear a noise
   outside--it is a dog come to see me; you must hide under this
   calabash for safety.” The cat was scarcely hidden when the dog,
   coming in, made a similar request for his money. Says Master
   Spider, “There is a cat under that calabash; take him, and
   consider the debt paid.” No sooner said than done. Just then
   a snuffling and scraping were heard at the door. The third
   creditor, the hyena, had arrived. “Don’t be alarmed, my dear
   dog, but hide here till he has left,” and the spider bustled him
   under the calabash. “I smell a dog,” said the hyena, routing
   about. “Under that calabash,” the spider replied. “Eat him
   up, and your debt is paid.” The dog paid the penalty of his
   simplicity, and all was quiet once more. The hyena was preparing
   to leave, when he heard an ominous sound that sent him crouching
   against the wall. It was the pattering of the leopard’s feet
   at the door. “Quick! Under this calabash,” cried his host, and
   the hyena curls up in the fatal cache, only to meet a like fate
   from his more courageous enemy. “My debt is repaid!” said the
   leopard, and ran against the lion coming in. A terrible fight
   ensued, for the leopard and the lion are equal in strength, so
   the natives say. While blood and dust make havoc in the house,
   and both animals are exhausting their strength, the spider is
   busy at the fire. Seizing a pot of boiling grease, he pours it
   over the clawing mass. Leopard and lion roll apart in their
   death agony, and the spider has only to straighten and clean up
   before resuming once more the humdrum life of fly-catching.

    (3072)


   =Strategy of Enemies=--See SUBTLETY AMONG ANIMALS.


                           STRATEGY, SOCIAL

Not all the strategy of life is on the fields of diplomacy or war.

   An official tells a good story of the time when Hamilton
   Fish was Secretary of State. It had been said that Mrs. Fish
   sometimes carried her high ideas of courtesy too far--that it
   was Quixotic.

   One of her rules, for instance, was to return every call she
   received. Her husband was continually holding public receptions,
   and to these, out of courtesy, many women would come who had
   no desire that Mrs. Fish should call upon them--who were in no
   position to receive her properly if she did call.

   One such woman attended a Fish reception, left her card, and
   a little later was duly honored by a call from Mrs. Fish. The
   Fish equipage dashed down the narrow street and halted before
   the woman’s shabby little house. The footman opened the carriage
   door and Mrs. Fish descended.

   The poor woman of the house was in a dreadful predicament. She
   was, alas, kneeling on the sidewalk beside a bucket of hot
   water. Her sleeves were rolled back. She had a scrubbing-brush
   in one hand and a cake of soap in the other. She was scrubbing
   the front steps.

   Bending graciously over her, Mrs. Fish asked politely:

   “Is Mrs. Henry Robinson at home?”

   And Mrs. Henry Robinson replied: “No, mum, she ain’t,” and went
   on scrubbing.

    (3073)


   =Streams, Living and Dying=--See EARLY PROMISE.


                               STRENGTH

William Herbert Hudnut writes this virile advice for New Year’s time:

    Quit you like men, be strong;
      There’s a burden to bear,
      There’s a grief to share,
      There’s a heart that breaks ’neath a load of care--
    But fare ye forth with a song.

    Quit you like men, be strong;
      There’s a battle to fight,
      There’s a wrong to right,
      There’s a God who blesses the good with might--
    So fare ye forth with a song.

    Quit you like men, be strong;
      There’s a work to do,
      There’s a world to make new,
      There’s a call for men who are brave and true--
    On! on with a song!

    Quit you like men, be strong;
      There’s a year of grace,
      There’s a God to face,
      There’s another heat in the great world race--
    Speed! speed with a song!

    (3074)


                      STRENGTH FROM RESISTED EVIL

   In general, every evil to which we do not succumb, is a
   benefactor. As the Sandwich Islander believes that the strength
   and valor of the enemy he kills passes into himself, so we
   gain the strength of the temptation we resist.--Philadelphia
   _Ledger_.

    (3075)


   =Strength of the Weak=--See WEAKNESS AND STRENGTH.


                      STRENGTH, SECRET SOURCE OF

   Numa Pompilius, the second and the wisest King of Rome, was
   accustomed to retire to the forest, and receive wisdom and
   instruction from the goddess Egeria--who met him in secret--and
   then came forth to triumph in government and over his enemies.
   (Text.)

    (3076)


                   STRING, THE NEED OF MORE THAN ONE

   Thomas K. Beecher tells a story of finding his father’s old
   fiddle in the garret, where on a rainy day he had taken some
   children to play. It was all covered with dust and had only one
   string. And Mr. Beecher held it up to the children and told
   them how he used to hear his father play on it the old tunes,
   “Merrily, Oh,” and “Pompey Ducklegs.”

   Of course, they cried “Play on it. Play the old tunes.” “I can
   not,” he said, “for it has only one string.” When he tried it
   he could only pick out with three notes a tune. Then he said,
   “If it had two strings, I could play six tunes, and if it had
   not only a G string, but a D string and an A string, and an E
   string, I could play all the tunes. You can not play real music
   with one string.”--N. MCGEE WATERS.

    (3077)


   =Stress and Storm Gains=--See ADVERSITY.


   =Striving=--See STRAIN, NERVOUS.


                            STRONG AND WEAK

The idea of the big ones swallowing up the little ones, or the idea of
the trusts, is not by any means confined to land, as we may see from
reading the following:

   As the sea covers three-fifths of the surface of the globe,
   its fauna is similarly greater than the living forms on land.
   When a naturalist inspects a little pool not larger than a
   billiard-table which is filled by the splashing waves of the
   Mediterranean, he finds it teeming with more varied and busy
   forms of life than can be found in a square mile of ordinary
   land. But in all that living marine world there is not a trace
   of goodness! All fishes are murderers and cannibals, and as in
   fresh water big trout relish eating small trout, so, in the
   wider waters of the ocean, wo to the small fry when a larger
   father or brother catches sight of them!

   Science has boldly penetrated these dark, still abysses
   and finds that they abound with life. But such life! Many
   of the abysmal forms have large, movable jaws with rows of
   teeth all pointing backward, making escape impossible when
   once any creature is caught by them. The scientists of the
   _Challenger_ were once puzzled to make out what a thing
   was which came up in their trawl, until it proved to be a fish
   caught by a smaller fish who was swallowed by its larger brother
   by gradually pulling itself glove fashion over its victim by
   means of barbed teeth--somewhat like a child being slowly
   swallowed alive by a large expanding toad. In those black depths
   some forms have phosphorescent lights not unlike burglars’
   dark-lanterns, with which to hunt their prey.

   Only among those animals which originally used to tread the
   solid earth and then took to the sea, like the whale, seal, and
   walrus, is there any sign of any falling off in all-devouring
   selfishness; these are mammals, and hence show affection
   for their young. But they live where they have to encounter
   the hideous swordfish, or their own relative who has been
   transformed into the cruel grampus, and so must fight for
   life.--W. HANNA THOMSON, M.D., _Everybody’s_.

    (3078)


   =Strongest Quality Cultivated=--See ADVANTAGE, WORKING
      TO THE BEST.


                               STRUGGLE

   Contending with the globe, we are like Jacob wrestling with
   the angel. The fight is long and hard amid the mystery and the
   darkness, and the great Power seems reluctant to bless us; but
   the breaking of the day comes, and we find ourselves blest with
   corn, wine, oil, purple, feasts, flowers. Ah! and with gifts
   far beyond those of basket and store--ripened intelligence,
   self-reliance, courage, skill, manliness, virtue. Of course,
   man suffers in the conflict, as the patriarch did. When we see
   the farm laborer bent double with rheumatism, or the collier
   mutilated by the explosion in the mine, or the grinder with
   his lung gone, or the weaver with his enfeebled physique, or
   the seaman prematurely old through his battle with wind and
   wave, or any of the million workers who carry pathetic signs
   of the arduousness of toil, we see the limp of the victorious
   wrestler. In the South Seas the natives lie on their backs and
   the bread-fruit drops into their mouths. But these make a poor
   show in the grand procession of the ages.

The law of life is truly severe which enjoins that man shall eat
bread in the sweat of his face, but in this struggle for life our
great antagonist is our great helper; we are leaving barbarism behind
us; we are undergoing a magnificent transformation; we are becoming
princes of God and heirs of all things.--W. L. WATKINSON, “The
Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (3079)

    See ADVERSITY.


                          STRUGGLE AND GROWTH

   Life in crystals can be explained by the struggle for existence,
   which is ardent even here. In fact, if during their growth
   two crystals come into contact, the weaker will completely
   disappear, absorbed by the stronger.--_Revue Scientifique._

    (3080)


                            STUDY OVERDONE

   When I see a morning procession of pallid schoolboys staggering
   to school under a load of text-books almost too heavy to be
   held together by the strap that encircles them, or a bevy of
   young girls, bound on the same educational errand, more pallid
   and more exhausted by the eight or ten pounds of torture in
   the shape of grammars, dictionaries, geographies, arithmetics,
   geometries and philosophies, they, too, tug along the streets,
   I wish their piles of knowledge might be reduced one-half, for
   I can not but feel that with fewer books there would be more
   culture, that too many studies produce too little scholarship,
   and that the intellect which is forced will rarely be
   expanded.--JAMES T. FIELDS.

    (3081)


   =Style=--See PERSONAL ELEMENT IN LITERATURE.


                        SUBCONSCIOUS ABSORPTION

   Coleridge relates in his “Literaria Biographia” that in a Roman
   Catholic town in Germany a young woman who could neither read
   nor write was seized with a fever, during which, according to
   the priests, she was possest by a polyglot devil. For she talked
   Latin, Greek, and Hebrew, besides uttering sounds which, tho not
   understood by her hearers, had doubtless, meaning, but belonged
   to languages unknown to them. “Whole sheets of her ravings
   were written out,” says Coleridge, “and were found to consist
   of sentences intelligible in themselves, but having slight
   connection with each other.” Fortunately, a physician who, being
   skeptically inclined, was disposed to question the theory of the
   polyglot spirit, “determined to trace back the girl’s history.
   After much trouble he discovered that at the age of nine she
   had been charitably taken by an old Protestant pastor, a great
   Hebrew scholar, in whose house she lived till his death. On
   further inquiry, it appeared to have been the old man’s custom
   for years to walk up and down a passage of his house, into which
   the kitchen opened, and to read to himself in a loud voice out
   of his books. The books were ransacked, and among them were
   found several of the Greek and Latin fathers, together with
   a collection of rabbinical writings. In these works so many
   of the passages taken down at the young woman’s bedside were
   identified that there could be no reasonable doubt as to their
   source.”--Prof. RICHARD A. PROCTOR, New York _Mail
   and Express_.

    (3082)


   =Subjects a Necessity=--See FAME, QUALIFYING FOR.


                         SUBSTANCE AND SHADOW

   When Elihu Root was about to enter the Roosevelt Cabinet as
   Secretary of State, a friend wrote to him: “Why not wait three
   years and get the substance instead of taking the shadow now?”
   in allusion to the presidency. Mr. Root replied: “I have always
   thought that the opportunity to do something worth doing was the
   substance and the trying to get something was the shadow.”

    (3083)


                        SUBSTANCES, PENETRATING

   Scientific men declare that there is no barricade like snow. A
   bullet fired from a distance of fifty yards will not penetrate
   a wall of snow a few feet thick, but the same missile passes
   through dense earthworks and shatters trees when discharged
   from a much greater distance. A bag of cotton is a much more
   efficient resistant than a steel plate. A swordsman can cut a
   sheep in two at a stroke, but he is baffled at once if he seeks
   to cut through a pillow of fine feathers. (Text.)

    (3084)


                             SUBSTITUTION

The following incident, related by Edward Gilliat, illustrates the
truth of Christ bearing our sins:

   Louis XIII, finding the Brittany fleet too weak to attack La
   Rochelle, had ordered the Mediterranean galleys to pass through
   the Straits of Gibraltar. M. de Gondi put out to sea, but left
   ten galleys at Marseilles to be equipped and made up to their
   full numbers. But there were not enough galley-slaves to fill up
   the places, so prisoners from ordinary prisons were drafted in
   to serve on the galleys.

   Among these latter Vincent de Paul noticed one young man who
   was sobbing and crying piteously. He asked him the cause of his
   misery, and was answered, “It is because I am leaving my wife
   and little children in great poverty; and now who will work for
   them? I have not deserved so great a punishment for my slight
   offense against the law.” The chaplain made further inquiries,
   found that the slave had spoken the truth, but, as the galley
   was on the point of starting, he could not get him reprieved.
   There was only one thing to be done; it was not lawful, but pity
   mastered prudence. He somehow managed to exchange places with
   the galley-slave, got himself chained to the seat, and sent
   off the prisoner in his soutane. He was not recognized until
   some time afterward, and hastened to leave Marseilles, as his
   biographer says, “more ashamed of his virtue than others of
   their vice.”--“Heroes of Modern Crusades.”

    (3085)

       *       *       *       *       *

   More than eighty years ago a fierce war raged in India between
   the English and Tippoo Sahib. On one occasion several English
   officers were taken prisoners. Among them was one named Baird.
   One day the native officer brought in fetters to be put upon
   each of the prisoners, the wounded not excepted. Baird had been
   severely wounded and was suffering from pain and weakness.

   A gray-haired officer said to the native official, “You do not
   think of putting chains upon that wounded man?”

   “There are just as many pairs of fetters as there are
   prisoners,” was the answer, “and every pair must be worn.”

   “Then,” said the noble officer, “put two pairs on me. I will
   wear his as well as my own.” This was done. Strange to say,
   Baird lived to regain his freedom, and lived to take that city;
   but his noble, unselfish friend died in prison.

   Up to his death he wore two pairs of fetters. But what if he had
   worn the fetters of all the prisoners? What if, instead of being
   a captive himself, he had quitted a glorious palace, to live in
   their loathsome dungeon, to wear their chains, to bear their
   stripes, to suffer and die for them, that they might go free,
   and free forever? (Text.)

    (3086)


   =Substitution Unacceptable=--See VICARIOUS SALVATION IMPOSSIBLE.


   =Subterfuges=--See REASONS VERSUS EXCUSES.


                               SUBTLETY

   The fer-de-lance is found on the islands of Martinique and Santa
   Lucia. The basis of its gruesome reputation seems to be the fact
   that it does not warn the intruders of its haunts after the
   manner of the cobra or the rattlesnake, but flattens its coils
   and with slightly vibrating tail, awaits events.

   If the unsuspecting traveler should show no sign of hostile
   intent he may be allowed to pass unharmed within two yards
   of the coiled matadore, but a closer approach is apt to be
   construed as a challenge, and the serpent, suddenly rearing
   its ugly head, may scare the trespasser into some motion of
   self-defense. He may lift his foot or brandish his stick in a
   menacing manner. If he does, he is lost. The lower coils will
   expand, bringing the business end, neck and all a few feet
   nearer; the head points like a leveled rifle, then darts forward
   with electric swiftness, guided by an unerring instinct for the
   selection of the least-protected parts of the body. (Text.)

    (3087)


                        SUBTLETY AMONG ANIMALS

   It is said that when wolves meditate an attack upon the wild
   horses of the Mexican plains they are very subtle in their
   maneuvers. First, two wolves come out of the woods and begin to
   play together like two kittens. They gambol about each other and
   run backward and forward. Then the herd of horses raise their
   frightened heads in readiness for a stampede. But the wolves
   seem to be so playful that the horses, after watching them a
   while, forget their fears and continue to graze, at perfect ease
   in their eating. Then the wolves, in their play, come nearer and
   nearer, while other wolves slowly and stealthily creep after
   them. Then suddenly the enemies encircle the herd, and with one
   lunge the doomed horses are in the pitiless grasp of the wily
   foe. They desperately fight a losing battle as the fierce brutes
   sink their fangs in the horses’ throats.

In a similar way evil companions seek to lay a snare for those whom
they would entrap.

    (3088)


                                SUCCESS

It often turns out that our apparent successes are really our undoing.
Croake James tells this incident:

   I was mightily delighted with the whim I was shown on a sign
   at a village not far from this capital, tho it is too serious
   a truth to excite one’s risibility. On one side is painted a
   man stark naked, with this motto: “I am the man who went to law
   and lost my cause.” On the reverse is a fellow all in tatters,
   looking most dismally with this motto: “I am the man who went to
   law and won my cause.” (Text.)--“Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (3089)

       *       *       *       *       *

A Nebraska woman won a prize of $250 for this essay on “What
Constitutes Success,” written in competition with many others:

   He has achieved success who has lived well, laughed often and
   loved much; who has gained the respect of intelligent men and
   the love of little children; who has filled his niche and
   accomplished his task; who has left the world better than he
   found it, whether by an improved poppy, a perfect poem or a
   rescued soul; who has never lacked appreciation of earth’s
   beauty or failed to express it; who has always looked for the
   best in others and given them the best he had; whose life was an
   inspiration; whose memory a benediction.

    (3090)


                       SUCCESS AND CIRCUMSTANCES

   I remember Thackeray saying to me, concerning a certain chapter
   in one of his books that the critics agreed in accusing of
   carelessness: “Careless? If I’ve written that chapter once, I’ve
   written it a dozen times--and each time worse than the last!”
   a proof that labor did not assist in his case. When an artist
   fails it is not so much from carelessness--to do his best is not
   only profitable to him, but a joy. But it is not given to every
   man--not, indeed, to any--to succeed whenever and however he
   tries. The best painter that ever lived never entirely succeeded
   more than four or five times; that is to say, no artist ever
   painted more than four or five masterpieces, however high his
   general average may have been, for such success depends on the
   coincidence, not only of genius and inspiration, but of health
   and mood and a hundred other mysterious contingencies.--Sir
   JOHN MILLAIS, _Magazine of Art_.

    (3091)


                      SUCCESS BY EXPERIMENTATION

   A few years ago the cotton-boll weevil, which had increased
   steadily from year to year, reached a point at which it
   destroyed in Texas over $30,000,000 worth of cotton in
   one season. Many men in southern Texas were bankrupted,
   cotton-planting was given up in certain places, and it looked
   as if this great wealth-producing industry were doomed in Texas
   and probably also in time over the entire South. The practical
   farmers were completely overwhelmed. Here the Department of
   Agriculture started three lines of experimentation; first, to
   find some other harmless insect or parasite that would destroy
   the boll weevil as the white scale had been destroyed in
   California; second, to develop a species of cotton that could
   resist weevil attack; and third, to find a method of cultivation
   that would lessen the injury of the attack of the weevil when
   made. The ants, which the department brought from South America
   to eat up the boll weevil, proved a failure, but the development
   of a better method of cultivation and the use of better
   adapted varieties of cotton proved so successful that Texas
   farmers now, following the methods worked out by the department
   investigators, again raise their magnificent crops of cotton, in
   spite of the boll weevil.--_The Evening Post._

    (3092)


                          SUCCESS FROM LABOR

   “Paradise Lost” was finished in 1665, after seven years’ labor
   in darkness. With great difficulty Milton found a publisher, and
   for the great work, now the most honored poem in our literature,
   he received less than certain verse-makers of our day receive
   for a little song in one of our popular magazines. Its success
   was immediate, tho, like all his work, it met with venomous
   criticism.

   The work stamped him as one of the world’s great writers, and
   from England and the Continent pilgrims came in increasing
   numbers to speak their gratitude.--WILLIAM J. LONG,
   “English Literature.”

    (3093)


                          SUCCESS IN FAILURE

_Success Magazine_ appropriately publishes these lines:

    There is no failure. God’s immortal plan
    Accounts no loss a lesson learned for man.
    Defeat is oft the discipline we need
    To save us from the wrong, or teaching heed
    To errors which would else more dearly cost--
    A lesson learned is ne’er a battle lost.
    Whene’er the cause is right, be not afraid;
    Defeat is then but victory delayed--
    And e’en the greatest vic’tries of the world
    Are often won when battle-flags are furled.

    (3094)

   See FAILURE LEADING TO SUCCESS.


                      SUCCESS INSPIRES CONFIDENCE

   Because Paul Armstrong in five days wrote “Alias Jimmy
   Valentine,” a New York success, another play, as yet unread
   by Liebler & Co., has been accepted by that firm. The exact
   conversation confirming this business deal is worthy of
   recording because of the brevity of it. Mr. Armstrong called
   at the office of the managers just as Mr. George C. Tyler, the
   managing editor, was getting ready to leave for Rochester, where
   “A Certain Party” was to open.

   “I have written a play,” said Mr. Armstrong.

   “What is it called?” asked Mr. Tyler.

   “It has no name,” said the author.

   “How long did it take you to write it?” asked Mr. Tyler.

   “Four days,” said Mr. Armstrong. “I wrote it in a day’s less
   time than ‘Jimmy Valentine.’”

   “I’ll accept it,” said Mr. Tyler, and shook hands on the
   bargain.--Philadelphia _Enquirer_.

    (3095)


                           SUCCESS TOO DEAR

   Judge Baldwin, of Indiana, it is said, in giving his advice
   to lawyers upon one occasion, told them that the course to be
   pursued by a lawyer was first to get on, second to get honor,
   and third to get honest. A man who follows that policy, in
   my judgment, is not such a lawyer as should be let loose in
   politics. (Text.)--GEORGE M. PALMER.

    (3096)


   =Success, Ultimate=--See EXPERIMENT.


                               SUFFERING

Oberlin, the illustrious pastor of the Ban de la Roche, used the
following figure in comforting the sorrow of an afflicted lady:

   Dear madam, I have now before me two stones; they are alike in
   color, they are of the same water, clear, pure and clean. But
   there is a great difference between them; one has a dazzling
   brightness, the other is quite dull. What is the reason of this
   difference? The one has been carefully cut, the other hardly
   touched. Now, had these stones been endowed with life, so as to
   have been capable of feeling what they underwent, the one which
   had received eighty cuts would have thought itself very unhappy,
   and would have envied the fate of the other, which, having
   received but eight, had undergone but a tenth part of its own
   sufferings. Yet the stone which had suffered little is dim and
   lusterless; the stone which has suffered greatly shines forth in
   dazzling brilliancy.

    (3097)


                  SUFFERING, FELLOWSHIP WITH CHRIST’S

John B. Tabb expresses the requirement laid on true disciples of Jesus,
in this verse:

    In patience, as in labor, must thou be
      A follower of me,
    Whose hands and feet, when most I wrought for thee,
    Were nailed unto a tree. (Text.)

    --_The Independent._

    (3098)


                          SUFFERING FOR LOVE

    He who for love has undergone
      The worst that can befall,
    Is happier thousandfold than one
      Who never loved at all.
    A grace within his soul has reigned
      Which nothing else can bring;
    Thank God for all that I have gained
      By that high suffering.

    --LORD HOUGHTON.

    (3099)


   =Suffering Ignored=--See HEARTLESS PAGANS.


   =Suffering that Develops=--See ADVERSITY HELPING GENIUS.


                         SUFFERING TRANSFORMED

   Christ teaches us how, under the redemptive government of God,
   suffering has become a subtle and magnificent process for the
   full and final perfecting of human character. Science tells us
   how the bird-music, which is one of nature’s foremost charms,
   has arisen out of the bird’s cry of distress in the morning of
   time; how originally the music of field and forest was nothing
   more than an exclamation caused by the bird’s bodily pain and
   fear, and how through the ages the primal note of anguish
   has been evolved and differentiated until it has risen into
   the ecstasy of the lark, melted into the silver note of the
   dove, swelled into the rapture of the nightingale, unfolded
   into the vast and varied music of the sky and the summer. So
   Christ shows us that out of the personal sorrow which now rends
   the believer’s heart he shall arise in moral and infinite
   perfection; that out of the cry of anguish wrung from us by the
   present distress shall spring the supreme music of the future.
   (Text.)--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (3100)


                       SUFFERING TURNED TO SONG

   In Edinburgh when they were celebrating the life of Dr. George
   Matheson, the blind preacher, Robertson Nicoll said that he
   was the greatest Scotsman since Thomas Chalmers. Divide that
   statement in two in the middle, and you still have a great man.
   At twenty the youth left a surgeon’s office, with these words
   echoing in the porches of the ear, “Better see your friends
   quickly, for soon the darkness will settle, and you will see
   them no more forever.” Then his biographer tells us that the
   youth went on with his studies, by listening while others read
   or recited. Had Matheson been able to read early church history,
   he would have been a great scholar. Had he been able to read
   the story of the thinkers and system-builders, he would have
   been a great philosopher. But the greatest thing he ever did, it
   seems, was in life. We are told that there came a day when his
   visions dissolved, and he realized that he must go alone across
   the years. The storm tore down the perfumed vines that were
   climbing about the doorway of man’s soul. And the vine suffered
   grievously. But the youth coerced his lips to silence, went
   apart and hid himself for a day. When he came out it was with
   suffering turned to song. What will they celebrate as the blind
   preacher’s greatest achievement, in that memorial service in
   Edinburgh? Listen to the exploit of a faith-man, singing in the
   hour when love dwells amidst her ruins:

    O Love that will not let me go,
      I rest my weary soul in thee;
    I give thee back the life I owe
    That in thine ocean depths its flow
      May richer, fuller be.

    --N. D. HILLIS.

    (3101)


                          SUFFERING UNIVERSAL

   In the great earthquake which a large part of California
   experienced all animate nature suffered. For hours after the
   principal shock domestic animals manifested the utmost terror.
   Cattle lowed continuously; dogs barked long and lustily; cats
   crawled away and hid, and remained in hiding a large part
   of the day; and when they finally came forth, would crawl
   along crouching with bodies nearly touching the ground. Even
   the following night their fear had not left them. During the
   first half of the night we listened to a continuous chorus of
   howls and barkings, in which every dog in the city joined.
   About midnight the dogs ceased and the roosters took up the
   fear-inspired chant. It seemed as if every chicken in the city
   and surrounding country had joined this nocturnal orchestra,
   whose members scarcely stopt to take breath.

   In driving along the road, the writer noticed a large flock of
   barn-swallows around a small mud-puddle in the middle of the
   road. As they alighted they kept their wings extended straight
   up in the air and fluttering, while they drove their bills
   almost fiercely into the mud. A bystander explained that all
   their nests had been shaken down and they were rebuilding. To
   them calamity had come in the loss of their nests, their eggs,
   and mayhap their little ones. This little indication of common
   suffering made the feathered family seem much closer to the
   human. (Text.)

    (3102)


   =Suffering, Unnecessary=--See HELP UNRECOGNIZED.


   =Suffrage, Woman=--See RETORT, A.


                              SUGGESTION

   A few years ago in a certain part of England the weather was so
   continuously beastly--that’s the term they used--that at last,
   wearying of looking at the barometers day after day, week in and
   week out, the entire inhabitants of a certain seaport town, in
   sheer disgust, gathered up their weather-glasses and dumped them
   into the old junk shops. Both the weather and the barometers
   flooded them with disagreeable suggestions. They could not do
   away with the weather, but they could with their barometers
   that seemed to serve no better purpose than to accentuate their
   discontent.--ROBERT MACDONALD.

    (3103)

       *       *       *       *       *

Sometimes a word or phrase will do in literature what a sketch will
do in charcoal, defining a character and suggesting a whole line
of possibilities. An instance of this is in the following from
_Everybody’s Magazine_:

   After a certain jury had been out an inordinately long time on
   a very simple case, they filed into the court-room, and the
   foreman told the judge they were unable to agree upon a verdict.
   The latter rebuked them, saying the case was a very clear one,
   and remanded them back to the jury-room for a second attempt,
   adding, “If you are there too long I will have to send you in
   twelve suppers.”

   The foreman, in a rather irritated tone, spoke up and said: “May
   it please your honor, you might send in eleven suppers and one
   bundle of hay.”

    (3104)

   See NEGATIVE TEACHING.


   =Suggestion, Unhealthy=--See TALKING AND SICKNESS.


                           SUICIDE PREVENTED

   Some time since a young man who had spent his substance in
   riotous living was reduced to poverty. He wandered away from
   home, and being unable to support himself, he resolved upon
   self-destruction. He filled his pockets with lead, and,
   determined to drown himself, went to the river. Deciding to wait
   until dark, he was attracted by a light in the window of a house
   at no great distance, and went to it. The people were singing
   hymns. He listened at the door until a chapter from the Bible
   was read and prayer was offered to God. When the prayer was
   ended he knocked at the door and was admitted. The passage under
   consideration that evening was, “Do thyself no harm.” When the
   services were concluded the stranger asked them how they came
   to know his thoughts, for he had not mentioned his intention.
   The members of the meeting were equally surprized, as they had
   never before seen him. The young man then told them his design
   of taking his life and how he had been prevented. He became an
   eminent Christian. (Text.)

    (3105)


                          SUMMER IN THE HEART

    Springtime may lose its freshest tints,
      And autumn-leaves their gold.
    The bitter blast and snowy wreath
      May sweep across the wold;
    But the years are full of splendors
      That never will depart,
    For they shed eternal fragrance
      When there’s summer in the heart.

    The shadows linger on the earth,
      The sunbeams hide away;
    The sad mists fold their chill white hands
      About the face of day;
    The tumult and the rush of life
      Sound ay in street and mart;
    But they can not drown life’s music
      When there’s summer in the heart.

    The city towers are crumbling fast,
      And totter to their fall;
    The ivied castle on the height
      Shows many a ruined wall;
    But men build eternal buildings
      With strange and wondrous art;
    They are shrines for the immortals
      When there’s summer in the heart.

    --Montreal _Star_.

    (3106)


   =Sun The, as a Witness=--See TESTS.


                        SUN, THE BUSINESS OF A

   I remember walking in Switzerland, late in the evening in a
   raging thunder-storm. The darkness could be felt as well as
   the rain. Little points of light now and then by the roadside
   attracted my attention. On stopping to examine, there was a
   glowworm whose little flame had hollowed out of the immensity
   of darkness a small sphere of light, into which the grasses
   bent, all beaded with crystal drops. A most exquisite picture.
   Shelley speaks of a “glowworm golden in a dell of dew.” To
   go back to our camp-fire: After supper I stept down to the
   shore of the lake and there, far across its invisible surface,
   gleamed a little point of light. I knew that other campers were
   making themselves comfortable and happy in the little sphere
   of light and warmth which their fire had hollowed out of the
   all-embracing darkness.

Now, that precisely is the business of a sun. It is nothing more or
less than a great fire built, as only God knows how, for the purpose
of hollowing out of the eternal darkness and cold of space a sphere of
light and warmth large enough for a group or family of worlds to live
in. The sun is as purely a mechanical contrivance as your household
fire. In fact, it is just that. Our sun is the family hearth, in whose
light and heat our group of worlds live as in a home.--JAMES H.
ECOB.

    (3107)


                   SUNDAY DESECRATION BY CHRISTIANS

   Many years ago in Kyoto, Japan, the question was asked me, “Are
   there many Christians in America?” You can imagine how pathetic
   it was. I said, “Why do you ask that question?” My questioner
   was a fine, handsome, educated man, one of the finest of the
   Japanese type. He said, “Some years ago I became a Christian. I
   kept the finest store in Kyoto, as the tourists thought. I had
   gathered a great quantity of old relics from the temples and the
   homes that are so scarce now in Japan. I always used to keep my
   store closed on Sunday, but many Americans and Englishmen and
   Germans came through here and said, ‘If you can not open your
   store for us on Sunday, we will not trade with you, as we have
   to leave on Monday.’ By and by I had to keep my store open.” He
   has kept it open ever since, and he added, “My neighbor, the
   shoemaker, is a Christian, and keeps his store shut all the time
   on Sunday.” I suppose the reason was that there was not a large
   demand for Japanese shoes on the part of American and English
   travelers. That is a genuine touch of human nature.--EDWARD
   B. STURGES, “Student Volunteer Movement,” 1906.

    (3108)

   See SABBATH, OBSERVING THE.


   =Sunday Habit, A Bad=--See LYING AROUND.


                           SUNDAY NEWSPAPERS

When Dr. Charles J. Young, pastor of the Church of the Puritans, New
York, was waited upon by a lady reporter of a secular journal, for a
snappy article on the subject of Sunday newspapers, this is what she
got:

   “As a matter of fact,” said Dr. Young, “I actually believe in
   the Ten Commandments as divine enactments, and this is how I
   feel about it: Suppose you invite me as a friend to dine at
   your house and I accept. You would make special preparation
   for my coming. It is woman’s way to give her best where she
   gives her confidence and friendship. So there you have a rich
   repast all ready against my coming. Now imagine my stopping at
   a street corner on the way to your home and gorging myself from
   the peanut-stand of the noble Roman who deals out his wares to
   all who come without a care of the consequences; I ask this
   common-sense question: What condition would I be in to enjoy
   your luscious viands, and what kind of courtesy or appreciation
   would this be for all your kindness in preparing for me? Well,
   my friend, you see the application of this without my making
   it. There across the street stands the house of the dearest
   Friend I have ever had. One day out of seven He invites me there
   to meet with Him and to commune with Him and to receive from
   Him such supply as He has especially provided and adapted to
   my hungry, needy, immortal soul. I ask again, is it consistent
   with a spiritual worship, is it conducive to a devotional
   mind, is it either courteous to God or just to myself, if on
   the morning of that sacred day I fill my thoughts with the
   secularities, the commercialisms, the gossips, the scandal, the
   general excrescences of every-day rough-and-tumble life in this
   mammon-loving age?

   “My interviewer was silent for a surprizing length of time.
   Maybe I was wrong, but I fancied she looked up from the floor
   with a moistened eye and said in a quivering voice: ‘I have
   never thought of this view of the matter before, and I confess
   I am able now to see but one fair answer to your question: It
   can not be.’”--_Sunday-school Illustrator._

    (3109)


                            SUNDAY RECORDED

   Rev. Egerton R. Young tells of a big Indian chieftainess who
   came to see him one day. Her people lived a fortnight’s journey
   away, but she had heard of the paleface and his wife, who, with
   their wonderful Book, had come to live down among the Saulteaux.
   She did not believe what she heard but she came to find out.
   Her curiosity and her desire to learn were both insatiable. She
   would talk morning, noon and night. At last she was returning,
   satisfied that what the paleface said was true and determining
   to go back to pray to the true God. Mr. Young said to her, “Now,
   if you are going back to live as a Christian, you must keep one
   day in seven as God’s day. Do not attend to worldly matters on
   that day, but worship God.” He gave her a sheet of paper and
   told her each day to make a mark so | until there were six of
   them | | | | | |, and then to make a big heavy mark =|=, and
   when that day came, to leave the gun and the rifle quiet in the
   wigwam. He told her to work hard on Saturday, to get enough food
   for Sunday, so she could be free to think about the Great Spirit
   and pray to the living Father.

   Five months later Mr. Young made his first visit to the tribe of
   this great chieftainess, and she drew from her bosom a soiled,
   greasy paper, on which was the record of the days as he had
   bidden her to keep them, and she knew just how many days more
   must be counted before the next “praying day” should come.
   (Text.)

    (3110)


   =Sunday Rules=--See PEW, IF I WERE IN THE.


                      SUNDAY-SCHOOL IN EARLY DAYS

   I have a very definite picture of my own grandmother, when quite
   advanced in years, patiently teaching one or two illiterates to
   spell and to read, in the Sunday-school of an Episcopal church
   in a little country village in Vermont, where she was then
   residing; and as late as 1837 one object of the Sunday-school
   Society of Ireland was “to supply spelling-books and copies of
   the Scriptures” to the various Sunday-schools of the island. In
   fact, most of the early work was the teaching of reading and
   morality, and the Sunday-school was a sort of mission school
   among the unfortunate, the vicious, and the illiterate. Others
   did not attend, and it was only by very definite effort that
   the change to the present status was finally brought about.
   I remember hearing an army officer say that as late as 1845,
   in central New York, where he then resided as a boy of some
   twelve years of age, he was soundly whipt by his father because
   he had exprest his unwillingness to attend one of the “ragged
   schools”--as the Sunday-schools in his vicinity were then
   called; and he added that his impressions of the low caste of
   the school were so definite that he took his whipping like a man
   and without complaint.--JAMES H. CANFIELD, “Proceedings
   of the Religious Education Association,” 1904.

    (3111)


   =Sunday-school Missionary Work=--See BOYS’ MISSIONARY EFFORTS.


                       SUNDAY WORK DISCONTINUED

   Over four years ago the Chicago and Northwestern Railway Company
   decided to carry no more Sunday excursions; to run only such
   Sunday freight trains as were necessary to carry live stock
   and certain perishable goods; and to stop all Sunday work in
   freight-yards and sheds for twelve hours every Sunday.

   There was great opposition to this action. A boycott was
   threatened by brewers and other shippers, while the adverse
   criticisms were abundant and scathing.

   The last annual report of this railway gives striking
   endorsement as to the success of this policy of reduction of
   Sunday business. We are informed that the financial profits of
   the roads have increased 100 per cent during these four years;
   also, that last year not one life was lost on the whole line
   covering several thousand miles, with its many fast express,
   mail and freight trains; and there are practically no complaints
   from shippers and receivers of freight as to delays for cars, or
   delivery of goods.--_The Christian Statesman._

    (3113)

   See SABBATH, OBSERVING THE.


                        SUNLIGHT AND STARLIGHT

There is a Sun of Righteousness, before whose shining all the lesser
human lights are dimmed, as starlight by the sunshine.

   The extinction of “starlight” in the daylight is not due to
   the vapors of the atmosphere, but to the stronger vibrations
   of sunlight, which prevent our eyes perceiving the weaker
   vibrations of the starlight, exactly as a stronger sound, say
   a cannon-shot, prevents us from hearing a smaller noise, say
   a mouse piping; or, as is well known, a larger disturbance in
   water extinguishes a smaller one. The smaller noise, the smaller
   sound waves, and the smaller light vibrations are not perceived
   by our senses when the greater impressions or disturbances
   occupy them. (Text.)

    (3114)


                       SUNDAY-SCHOOL STATISTICS

   From the United States “Bureau of Census” Bulletin 103 are taken
   the following statistics of Sunday-schools in the continental
   United States:

   Of the 178,214 Sunday-schools conducted by church organizations,
   165,128, or 92.7 per cent., are returned by the Protestant
   bodies; 11,172 or 6.3 per cent. by the Roman Catholic Church and
   1,914, or 1.1 per cent., by the remaining bodies.

   Among the Protestant bodies, the Methodist bodies rank first,
   with 57,464 Sunday-schools, or 32.2 per cent. of the total,
   and the Baptist bodies come next with 43,178 or 24.2 per cent.
   of the total the two families together reporting considerably
   more than one-half the entire number of denominational
   Sunday-schools. If to these be added the Presbyterian bodies,
   with 14,452 Sunday-schools, the Lutheran bodies with 9,450, and
   the Disciples or Christians with 8,078, the 5 bodies combined
   report 132,622 Sunday-schools or nearly three-fourths (74.4 per
   cent.) of the entire number and more than four-fifths (80.3 per
   cent.) of all those reported by Protestant bodies.

    (3112)


   =Sunday School, The, As a Seed=--See NEEDS, MEETING CHILDREN’S.


                  SUNDAY-SCHOOLS IN THE UNITED STATES

Denomination Key:

    A:  All denominations
    B:  Protestant bodies
    C:  Adventist bodies
    D:  Baptist bodies
    E:  Christians (Christian Connection)
    F:  Church of Christ, Scientist
    G:  Congregationalist
    H:  Disciples or Christians
    I:  Dunkers or German Bapt. Brethren.
    J:  Evangelical bodies
    K:  Friends
    L:  German Evangelical Synod of N. A.
    M:  Independent churches
    N:  Lutheran bodies
    O:  Mennonite bodies
    P:  Methodist bodies
    Q:  Presbyterian bodies
    R:  Protestant Episcopal Church
    S:  Reformed bodies
    T:  Unitarians
    U:  United Brethren bodies
    V:  Universalists
    W:  Other Protestant bodies
    X:  Roman Catholic Church
    Y:  Jewish congregations
    Z:  Latter-day Saints
    AA: Eastern Orthodox Churches
    BB: All other bodies

       +---------------++---------------++-----------------++------------------
       | ORGANIZATIONS || SUNDAY-SCHOOLS||  SUNDAY-SCHOOL  ||  SUNDAY-SCHOOL
       | REPORTING     ||    REPORTED   ||  OFFICERS AND   ||    SCHOLARS
       | SUNDAY-SCHOOLS||               ||    TEACHERS     ||
       +-------+-------++-------+-------++---------+-------++----------+-------
       |       |Per ct.||       |Per ct.||         |Per ct.||          |Per ct.
       | Number|  of   || Number|distri-||  Number |distri-||  Number  |distri-
       |       | total ||       | bution||         | bution||          | bution
    ---+-------+-------++-------+-------++---------+-------++----------+-------
       |       |       ||       |       ||         |       ||          |
    A  |167,574|  79.0 ||178,214| 100.0 ||1,648,664| 100.0 ||14,685,997| 100.0
    ===+=======+=======++=======+=======++=========+=======++==========+=======
       |       |       ||       |       ||         |       ||          |
    B  |156,437|  80.0 ||165,128|  92.7 ||1,564,821|  94.9 ||13,018,434|  88.6
    ---+-------+-------++-------+-------++---------+-------++----------+-------
    C  |  2,078|  81.5 ||  2,242|   1.3 ||   14,286|   0.9 ||    69,110|   0.5
    D  | 41,165|  75.0 || 43,178|  24.2 ||  323,473|  19.6 || 2,898,914|  19.7
    E  |  1,136|  82.4 ||  1,149|   0.6 ||   10,510|   0.6 ||    72,963|   0.5
    F  |    550|  86.2 ||    551|   0.3 ||    3,155|   0.2 ||    16,116|   0.1
    G  |  5,327|  93.2 ||  5,741|   3.2 ||   75,801|   4.6 ||   638,089|   4.3
       |       |       ||       |       ||         |       ||          |
    H  |  7,901|  72.2 ||  8,078|   4.5 ||   70,476|   4.3 ||   634,504|   4.3
    I  |    866|  78.9 ||  1,223|   0.7 ||   10,789|   0.7 ||    78,575|   0.5
    J  |  2,454|  89.6 ||  2,549|   1.4 ||   32,113|   1.9 ||   214,998|   1.5
    K  |    846|  73.8 ||    887|   0.5 ||    7,735|   0.5 ||    53,761|   0.4
       |       |       ||       |       ||         |       ||          |
    L  |  1,086|  90.1 ||  1,111|   0.6 ||   12,079|   0.7 ||   116,106|   0.8
    M  |    826|  76.6 ||    922|   0.5 ||    6,732|   0.4 ||    57,680|   0.4
    N  |  8,682|  68.3 ||  9,450|   5.3 ||   83,891|   5.1 ||   782,786|   5.3
    O  |    411|  68.0 ||    439|   0.2 ||    5,041|   0.3 ||    44,922|   0.3
       |       |       ||       |       ||         |       ||          |
    P  | 55,227|  85.4 || 57,464|  32.2 ||  569,296|  34.5 || 4,472,930|  30.5
    Q  | 13,048|  84.1 || 14,452|   8.1 ||  176,647|  10.7 || 1,511,175|  10.3
    R  |  5,211|  76.1 ||  5,601|   3.1 ||   51,048|   3.1 ||   464,351|   3.2
    S  |  2,345|  90.7 ||  2,588|   1.5 ||   38,710|   2.3 ||   361,548|   2.5
       |       |       ||       |       ||         |       ||          |
    T  |    358|  77.7 ||    364|   0.2 ||    3,592|   0.2 ||    24,005|   0.2
    U  |  3,777|  87.8 ||  3,870|   2.2 ||   42,169|   2.6 ||   301,320|   2.1
    V  |    596|  70.4 ||    600|   0.3 ||    6,585|   0.4 ||    42,201|   0.3
    W  |  2,547|  68.9 ||  2,669|   1.5 ||   20,693|   1.3 ||   162,380|   1.1
       |       |       ||       |       ||         |       ||          |
    X  |  9,406|  75.4 || 11,172|   6.3 ||   62,470|   3.8 || 1,481,535|  10.1
    Y  |    561|  31.7 ||    600|   0.3 ||    2,239|   0.1 ||    49,514|   0.3
    Z  |  1,036|  87.5 ||  1,169|   0.7 ||   18,507|   1.1 ||   130,085|   0.9
    AA |      7|   1.7 ||      7|   [1] ||       10|   [1] ||       509|   [1]
    BB |    127|  16.6 ||    138|   0.1 ||      617|   [1] ||     5,920|   [14]
    ---+-------+-------++-------+-------++---------+-------++----------+-------

[14] Less than one-tenth of 1 per cent.


                           SUNS, THE SIZE OF

   How large are some of our neighbor suns? Alpha Centauri, our
   nearest neighbor, with its double sun, gives twice as much
   light as we receive; great Sirius equals sixty-three of our
   suns; the Pole Star eighty-six. “Think of an eighty-fold sun.
   However, some are still more astonishing: Vega blazes with the
   light of three hundred and forty-four suns; Capella with the
   light of four hundred and thirty; Arcturus with the light of
   five hundred and sixteen, while mighty Alcyone, the glorious
   center around which we all, suns and worlds, are supposed to
   circle, blazes with the light of twelve thousand of our suns!”
   If our little sun can boast of a family with worlds of such
   beauty and greatness as Venus and Earth and glorious Saturn and
   mighty Jupiter, how shall we measure the number, the splendor
   and the magnitude of the worlds which circle about such centers
   as Sirius, Vega, Capella, Arcturus and Alcyone?--JAMES H.
   ECOB.

    (3115)


                               SUNSHINE

   The sunshine of Persia forms one of its greatest attractions.
   The natives are very much alarmed when an eclipse of the sun
   takes place, as they are afraid they are going to lose their
   benefactor. A Persian gentleman once visited England, and on his
   return to his native country was questioned by his friends as
   to which was the better land to live in. His reply was to the
   effect that in England the houses were grander, the scenery more
   beautiful, but that there was no sunshine.

A worldly life may have more show, but the Christian life has more
shine. (Text.)

    (3116)


                        SUNSHINE IN THE CHURCH

   On Mount Sinai, in a noted convent, is the chapel of the Burning
   Bush. A feature of this chapel is a window so situated that the
   sun shines through it only on one day in every year.

But the church that would really light human life must have sunshine in
all its windows every day in the year.

    (3117)


                         SUNSHINE, SCATTERING

   During the “cotton famine” in Lancashire, England, in 1865,
   just after our civil war, one of the mill-owners called his
   operatives together and told them he must close the mills. It
   meant poverty to him and ruin to them. Flickering hope sank in
   black despair. Presently a delicate, sweet girl, thin and pale
   with suffering--she was a Sunday-school teacher--started and
   sang two stanzas of this hymn:

    Ye fearful saints, fresh courage take,
      The clouds ye so much dread,
    Are big with mercy, and shall break
      In blessings on your head.

    Judge not the Lord by feeble sense,
      But trust Him for His grace;
    Behind a frowning providence,
      He hides a smiling face.

   A sunburst of hope came over the despairing company when the
   touching and comforting strain was ended. It proved a prophecy.
   The proprietor determined to struggle on a while longer, and
   soon the mill was running again at full work.

    (3118)

   See CHEER, SIGNALS OF.


   =Sunstroke, Warding Off=--See PROTECTION.


                             SUPERIOR MEN

   Without the presence of the superior man, the “paradise of the
   average man,” as this country has been called, would become
   a purgatory to all those who care chiefly, not for success,
   but for freedom and power and beauty. One of the greatest
   privileges of the average man is to recognize and honor the
   superior man, because the superior man makes it worth while
   to belong to the race by giving life a dignity and splendor
   which constitute a common capital for all who live. The respect
   paid to men like Washington and Lincoln, Marshall and Lee, Poe
   and Hawthorne, affords a true measure of civilization in a
   community.--HAMILTON FISH MABIE.

    (3119)


                        SUPERIORITY OF POSITION

   In Java sitting down is a mark of respect; in the Mariana
   Islands the inferior squats to speak to a superior who would
   consider himself degraded by sitting in the presence of one who
   should be objectively as well as figuratively “below” him. The
   punctilios relating to the fundamental rule that rank is defined
   by elevation are carried to absurdity in the Orient. When an
   English carriage was procured for the Rajah of Lombok, it was
   found impossible to use it because the driver’s seat was the
   highest, and for the same reason successive kings of Ava refused
   to ride in the carriages presented to them by ambassadors. In
   Burmah, that a floor overhead should be occupied would be felt
   as a degradation, contrary to civilized ideas that the lower
   stories are the most honorable. In Siam, on the principle that
   no man can raise his head to the level of his superiors, he must
   not cross a bridge if one of higher rank chances to be passing
   below, and no mean person may walk upon a floor above that
   occupied by his betters.--GARRICK MALLERY, _Popular
   Science Monthly_.

    (3120)


                             SUPERSTITION

   There is a man named Uonosuke Yamamoto, whose daily vocation for
   fifty years has been to gather up and to sell at a high price
   all the dust which is left in the Kannon temple in Asakusa by
   the thousands of visitors who daily go there to worship.

   The superstitious purchasers sprinkle small patches of this
   dust in front of their own doors, believing it will bring them
   blessings and immunity from plague and famine.

    (3121)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The rude and unread of past ages have always connected natural
   phenomena with supernatural agencies, adoring the sun and the
   moon with altar fires on high places and in groves, of which
   the witches’ Sabbath was a fancied descendant; and even in
   the twelfth century there were remnants of these forms in the
   fire-worship supposed to be led by old women, one of whom was
   called the night-queen, and who, as old women will, cherished
   traditions and forms to such an extent that the bishops were
   finally ordered to have them watched. It was but a little more
   than three hundred years ago when it was generally believed that
   the appearance of a huge comet was the work of Satan, and its
   disappearance was the work of the Church. Perhaps we have not
   left all these follies quite behind us yet. People who nowadays
   make a wish at the first sight of the evening star, expecting to
   receive the thing wished for, who are particular about seeing
   the new moon, not through glass, and with silver in their
   pockets, and who hold that the position of the slender horn
   signifies either a dry month or a wet one, as it may be--such
   people have hardly any right to call in question the demonology
   believed in by the people of the Middle Ages and the old dames
   of later days.--_Harper’s Bazar._

    (3122)

       *       *       *       *       *

“Refuse old wives’ fables,” is a good Biblical rule. Christianity is
slowly dispelling such foolish beliefs as the following:

   There are still some places where people believe a felon on the
   finger is caused by having pointed the finger at the moon, and
   that some headaches are caused by having one’s hair cut while
   the moon is crescent.

    (3123)

       *       *       *       *       *

“They who believe not in God will believe in ghosts.” This is the
nature of superstition, of which these Tahitians are an example:

   The Tahitians had great confidence in the power of red feathers,
   attributing large success in fishing to their presence on the
   canoes, but had little conception of the soul or of duty; and,
   while faithless toward God, they were credulous toward the
   most absurd imposture, placing their trust in fortune-tellers,
   dreams, and signs of good or ill luck.--PIERSON, “The
   Miracles of Missions.”

    (3124)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Fishermen the world over are as prone to superstition as sailors
   are, and many curious notions prevail among them as to what
   shall be done to court luck in their catches.

   One of the strangest notions in this respect is that held by the
   Indians in British Columbia. With great ceremony and solemnity
   these red men go out to meet “the first salmon,” endeavoring in
   flattering tones to win the favor of the fish by addressing them
   as “great chiefs.”

   The salmon fisheries in California used to be responsible for
   a queer custom on the part of the Indians. Every spring they
   would “dance for salmon.” If the fish did not appear with that
   celerity deemed appropriate there would be employed a “wise
   man,” who made an image of a swimming fish which was placed in
   the water in the hope of attracting live fish to the bait.

   The Japanese fishermen have the quaint notion that silence must
   be observed, and even the women left at home are not permitted
   to talk lest the fish should hear and disapprove. Among the
   members of the primitive race of the Ainos, the first fish
   caught is brought in through a window instead of a door, so that
   the other fish “may not see.”

   Among the Eskimos it is held that bad luck will come should
   their women sew while the men are fishing. If the necessity for
   mending arises the women must do the job shut up in little tents
   out of sight of the fishermen.

   The fishermen off the northeast coast of Scotland will, under
   no circumstances, allow a fisherman at sea to make mention of
   certain objects on land, such as, for instance, “dog,” “swine,”
   “cow,” etc. If on land chickens are not to be counted before
   they are hatched, so at sea fish must not be counted till the
   catch be completed. The Scots think that it is good luck to find
   a rat gnawing at a net; also a horseshoe nailed to the mast
   will help; but the greatest good luck of all is to see a mouse
   aboard.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (3125)

   See BARRIERS; DECEIT WITH GOD; EYE, THE EVIL; FEAR; JUNK;
     SPIRITISTIC PHENOMENA; THIRTEEN SUPERSTITION, THE; WITCHES,
     BELIEF IN.


                        SUPERSTITION CONDEMNED

   The belief that a particular house or day or gem is “unlucky”
   and fraught with evil runs counter to any rational theory of the
   government of the universe. How can those who believe in the
   rule of a Supreme Being--a conscious and just and omniscient
   intelligence--picture their God as capable of such caprice,
   such impish malevolence, as to make one dwelling out of ten
   thousand fatefully “unlucky” to its inhabitants, or to visit
   with misfortune those of his creatures who break a looking-glass
   or who start on a journey on a Friday--an artificial designation
   in a mushroom calendar news of which can hardly yet have
   reached the dial of the skies? Or, accepting the other theory
   of a government of law, is it conceivable that the ordainments
   of immutable nature are subject to whimsical and malevolent
   manipulations to harass and distress human beings? Civilized
   voodooism is an impugnment of the Power that rules the universe.
   It is degrading to the intellect of man. It is an affront to
   common sense.--New York _World_.

    (3126)


   =Superstition Overcome=--See INTELLIGENCE OUTDOING IGNORANCE.


   =Superstitions, Chinese=--See EARTHQUAKE, SUPERSTITIONS ABOUT.


                         SUPPLIES, BRINGING UP

   A citizen noticed a medal on the breast of a soldier. “You have
   been in the war, I see,” he said. “Yes,” he replied. “I’ve been
   through one war, and that accounts for my medal.” “In what
   battles did you fight?” The soldier smiled and said, “I was
   never at the front; my business was to bring up supplies.”

Many a man or woman will never get to the front of a great pitched
battle, but he or she can help to win the victory by “bringing up the
supplies.” Out of sight, in the rear of the fighters, we can bring up
supplies to aid their efforts.

    (3127)


   =Supply According to Capacity=--See CAPACITY LIMITING SUPPLY.


                           SUPPLY AND DEMAND

   The story is told of a tramp who came to a certain valley, which
   was inundated by a freshet in a river. There was a great demand
   for help to carry persons and property in boats to a place of
   safety. The tramp threw down the bundle, which contained all
   he had in the world, and declared: “This is my harvest.” He
   demanded ten dollars a day, and went to work at that rate. This
   was true philosophy. He kept out of the labor market until the
   “conjuncture” of supply and demand was all on his side, and
   then he went in.--Prof. WILLIAM G. SUMNER, _The
   Independent_.

    (3128)


   =Support by Faith of Others=--See DEPENDENCE.


                             SURFACE LIVES

   There is plenty of light and heat in the desert. The occasional
   oases that cheer the traveler show that the soil is rich enough
   to grow vegetation. Water is the one thing it needs to make it a
   fertile garden. Sometimes a few feet beneath the surface there
   flows a river. If the parched and fainting pilgrim would pause
   and dig deep enough he might find the cool, clear water that
   would quench his thirst and help to save his life.

So many a man is content to live on the surface of life and suffer
thirst of soul, whereas, if he would “let down his bucket for a
draught,” the deeps of better inspiration--a true water of life--might
always be reached. (Text.)

   (3129)


                        SURGERY, IMPROVEMENT IN

   Within our own time, another great man of the Washington type,
   Count Cavour, has been slain by medical bleeding precisely as
   Washington was. The worse Cavour grew, the more his doctors
   bled him, and he finally succumbed under the treatment, in the
   flower of his age and in the midst of his usefulness. It is,
   therefore, not unfair to conclude that the final cessation of
   a practise so barbarous, so opposed to common sense, has been
   due to the increase of physiological knowledge and to that
   increased reliance on nature and careful nursing, and diminished
   reliance on “physic,” which is the result of this knowledge,
   and that its continuance in any country is simply a sign of a
   low condition of medical research. The advance in conservative
   surgery has been simply enormous. The great operations have been
   robbed of their terrors, and with their terrors of much of their
   danger, and nothing has made more progress than contrivances
   for preventing the loss of blood. In fact, in the practise of
   to-day there is nothing of which so much care is taken as of the
   patient’s blood. Not only is he left in possession of all he has
   already got, but every pains is taken to increase his supply
   of it. Nobody “lets blood” now but assassins, and “toughs” and
   suicides--a curious sign of progress, but a sign of progress it
   is.--New York _Evening Post_.

    (3130)


                           SURGERY IN KOREA

   Medical science in Korea is wofully deficient. Native doctors
   have but two instruments--a little flat knife-blade and a long,
   sharp knitting-needle-like instrument. The former is used for
   bleeding or scraping, and the latter for plunging into the body
   to make an exit for the disease devil. It is always surgically
   dirty and a joint is a favorite place for its insertion. Septic
   conditions arise which render the joints permanently immovable.
   Medical missionaries are continually called upon to give aid to
   children of from eight to twelve years of age with stiffened
   knees or elbows.

    (3131)


                          SURPRIZES IN BOOKS

   There are the “pleasant surprizes” of publishing--books
   undertaken with the expectation of about paying expenses that
   have soared away to the hundred-thousand mark. Others are
   “undertaken because they are known to be works of great merit,
   and while the publisher may not have much hope of a satisfactory
   result, there is a chance that the merit of the book may in
   time make an impression on the public.” Then there are those
   undertaken because “they strike a new note in literature, which
   may receive the appreciation of the public.” “David Harum” is
   called “the greatest surprize.” Seven or eight publishers had
   declined the book, and only two persons in the house accepting
   it had much hope that it would pay expenses. For six months
   after publication a few thousand copies were disposed of; its
   ultimate sale was nearly a million.--_Appleton’s Magazine._

    (3132)


   =Surrender, Total=--See RESERVATION.


   =Survey, The Larger=--See POINT OF VIEW.


                               SURVIVAL

Mr. Vernon L. Kellogg gives the imaginary feelings of a minute scale
that infests oranges during their growth, on finding out that he and
his kind were the common prey of the orange beetle:

   He soon learned that of all the orange-dwellers who are born,
   only a very, very few escape the beetles and other devouring
   beasts who pursue them. And he was highly indignant when one
   shrewd orange-dweller told him that it really was a good thing
   for the race of orange-dwellers that so many of them were
   killed. “For,” the shrewd orange-dweller said, “if all of us who
   are born should live and have families, and not die until old
   age came on, there would soon be so many of us that we should
   eat all the orange-trees in the world, and then we should all
   starve to death.” And this is quite true.--“Insect Stories.”

    (3133)


                        SURVIVAL OF THE FITTEST

   “Among every hundred men who become firemen only seventeen
   are ever made engineers,” says Warren S. Stone, chief of the
   Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers, one of the most powerful
   labor organizations in the world. “Out of every one hundred
   engineers only six ever get passenger runs. The next time you
   see a white-haired man on the cab of a big passenger locomotive
   don’t wonder at all at his white hair, but make up your mind
   that he has the goods or he wouldn’t be there. It is a case of
   the selection and the survival of the fittest. It takes nerve to
   run the fast trains these days, for you sit at your throttle,
   tearing across the country at the rate of more than a mile a
   minute, and if any one of a dozen people, down to the man who
   spiked the rails, has made a mistake you ride to certain death.”

    (3134)

   See NATURE’S AGGRESSIVENESS.


                               SUSPICION

   Two promoters once called on Mr. Russell Sage to try to interest
   him in a certain scheme. They talked to the great financier
   about an hour. Then they took their leave, having been told that
   Mr. Sage’s decision would be mailed to them in a few days. “I
   believe we’ve got him,” said the first promoter hopefully, on
   the way uptown. “I don’t know,” rejoined the other. “He seems
   very suspicious.” “Suspicious?” said the first. “What makes you
   think he was suspicious?” “Didn’t you notice,” was the reply,
   “how he counted his fingers after I had shaken hands with
   him?”--New Orleans _States_.

    (3135)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The people who make it their chief business in life to see that
   they are not imposed upon very frequently wrong others in their
   over-eagerness to maintain their rights. The following incident
   has a valuable lesson for all impulsive folk who are also a
   little inclined to suspect the motives of other people.

   A countryman, says an exchange, came into a village store with a
   very angry demeanor. “Look here,” he began sharply, “I bought a
   paper of nutmegs here yesterday, and when I got home I found ’em
   mor’n half walnuts. And there is the young villain I bought ’em
   of,” he added, pointing to the proprietor’s son.

   “John,” said the father, “did you sell this man walnuts for
   nutmegs?”

   “No, sir,” was the ready response.

   “You needn’t lie about it,” exclaimed the farmer, still further
   enraged by the young man’s assurance.

   “Now, look here,” said John, with a good-natured smile, “if you
   had taken the trouble to weigh your nutmegs, you would have
   found that I put walnuts in extra.

   “Oh, you gave them to me, did you?” asked the man in a somewhat
   mollified tone.

   “Yes, sir; I threw in a handful for the children.”

   “Well, if you ain’t a good one!” the man remarked, with restored
   good humor. “An’ here I’ve been making an idiot of myself. Just
   put me up a pound of tea, will ye. I’ll stop and weigh things
   next time.”

    (3136)


   =Swearing=--See CONSCIENCE; OATHS.


                     SWEARING A WASTE OF CHARACTER

   General Washington, in an order issued August 3, 1776, said:
   “The general is sorry to be informed that the foolish and wicked
   practise of profane cursing and swearing, a vice hitherto little
   known in an American army, is growing into fashion. He hopes
   the officers will, by example as well as influence, endeavor to
   check it, and that both they and the men will reflect that we
   can have little hope of the blessing of heaven on our army if we
   insult it by our impiety and folly. Added to this, it is a vice
   so mean and low, without any temptation, that every man of sense
   and character detests and despises it.” Swearing is a great
   waste of character!

   James says: “But above all things, my brethren (and my Juniors),
   swear not; neither by heaven, neither by the earth, neither by
   any other oath; but let your yea be yea, and your nay be nay;
   lest ye fall into condemnation.” Swearing is a great loss of
   soul! James asks you to be specially watchful against the habit
   of swearing. “Above all things”--that is, you will find it more
   difficult to keep from this sin than it is to keep from many
   other besetting sins.

    (3137)

       *       *       *       *       *

   If Satan can not get a boy or girl to swear with the tongue,
   he will try to get a swear through the hands or feet. Slamming
   a door when you are mad is hand-swearing. When you have been
   corrected and go out of the room as tho each step would put
   holes in the floor you are foot-swearing. Sometimes a swear
   spreads over the face like a cloud across the sky. Swearing is a
   great loss of happiness!--J. M. FARRAR.

    (3138)

   See SELF-RESTRAINT.


                       SWEARING A WASTE OF TIME

   Swearing is a great waste of time. Stop the leak in the kettle.
   This kettle is an hour with sixty drops of time in it. If there
   is a leak in the kettle the little drops of time will be lost.
   Sixty drops and the hour-kettle is empty. Swearing is a bad
   habit and will surely wear a hole in the kettle. It is difficult
   to swear without getting angry. Sometimes the kettle is emptied
   before the hole is made. How? Anger starts the kettle boiling
   and time runs over and is lost. Swearing is a great waste of
   time! In sixty minutes of temper an hour has run over.--J.
   M. FARRAR.

    (3139)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Wednesday, April 27, was Grant’s birthday. Some one told the
   following interesting story about him: “While sitting with him
   at the camp-fire late one night, after every one else had gone
   to bed, I said to him: ‘General, it seems singular that you
   have gone through all the trouble of army service and frontier
   life and have never been provoked into swearing. I have never
   heard you utter an oath or use an imprecation.’

   “‘Well, somehow or other, I never learned to swear,’ he replied.
   ‘When a boy I seemed to have an aversion to it, and when I
   became a man I saw the folly of it. I have always noticed, too,
   that swearing helps to arouse a man’s anger; and when a man
   flies into a passion, his adversary, who keeps cool, always
   gets the better of him. In fact, I never could see the use of
   swearing. I think it is the case with many people who swear
   excessively that it is a mere habit, and that they do not mean
   to be profane; but, to say the least, it is a great waste of
   time.’”--J. M. FARRAR.

    (3140)


                          SWIFTNESS OF BIRDS

   The inexperienced gunner will declare emphatically that any old
   bird can fly at least a mile a second, but science is of the
   opinion that the swift, the most speedy bird of all, can make
   but 250 miles an hour. The swallow can cover ninety-two miles in
   an hour and the eider-duck ninety miles. All birds of prey are
   necessarily rapid in their flight; the eagle can attain a speed
   of 140 miles per hour and the hawk 150 miles. The flight of most
   migratory birds does not exceed fifty miles an hour, and the
   crow can accomplish but twenty-five.

   A falcon belonging to Henry IV of France escaped from
   Fontainebleau and was found at Malta twenty-four hours later,
   having covered a distance of at least 1,530 miles. Sir John
   Ross, on October 6, 1850, dispatched from Assistance Bay two
   young carrier-pigeons, one of which reached its dove-cote in
   Ayrshire, Scotland, on the 13th. This was comparatively slow
   time for the distance, two thousand miles. It is probable that
   flights which have occasioned astonishment by greatly exceeding
   the average have been materially assisted by aerial currents
   moving in the same direction.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (3141)


                               SWINDLING

An instance of “high finance,” under the guise of religion, is set
forth by the daily press in the case of one, Carl Helmstadt, of whom
this is said:

   The detectives report an instructive conversation with this man,
   who tells clergymen he is a brand from the burning and needs
   their prayers for deliverance.

   “How many ministers have you swindled?” the detective asked
   Helmstadt.

   “Oh, I don’t know how many.”

   “More than one hundred?”

   “Sure,” answered Helmstadt. “Why not? We kneel down and pray
   together, and we both weep. Then I tell them I feel greatly
   relieved, spiritually. Then I sting them for a few dollars.”

    (3142)


                            SYMBOL OF LIFE

   Men talk sometimes as if the passage of a ship through the sea
   or a bird through the air is a fit symbol of man’s passage
   through this world. I do not think so. A better symbol would be
   the passage of a plow through the soil leaving a furrow behind.
   What does the furrow include? All the memory of every beautiful
   picture and landscape you have ever seen. It includes the memory
   of every experience, every sweet association, every tie of love,
   whether of father, mother, wife or children. All these, whether
   living or dead, speak to you. They have a voice, a language that
   you will understand.--GEORGE L. PERIN.

    (3143)


   =Symbol of Life, The Tree a=--See TREE A SPIRITUAL SYMBOL.


   =Symbol of Sacrifice=--See MEMORIAL OF LINCOLN.


                          SYMBOL, POWER OF A

   The waving folds of an American flag are credited with saving
   a house in the midst of the fire following the earthquake in
   San Francisco in April, 1906. The house stands at 1654 Taylor
   Street. As the fire crept up to it, its owner determined it
   should go gloriously and ran up a flag on the roof pole. The
   eaves had caught fire, but a company of the Twentieth United
   States Infantry, under a lieutenant, passing a block away, saw
   the banner waving proudly amid the smoke. “A house that flies a
   flag like that is worth saving,” is the expression the narrator
   puts on the lips of the young officer. The men ran to the place,
   beat off the flames and saved the house.

    (3144)


                          SYMBOLIC PREACHING

A good example of symbolic preaching is afforded in the following
descriptions of a sermon by a Chinese evangelist named Li, of Changsha,
China, on the value of the soul:

   Mr. Li began by describing a clock, without naming it, calling
   it dead and yet alive. He showed that it has all the parts of a
   living mechanism, but that this mechanism is dead; without two
   great essentials. The clock was then shown to the audience and
   they were led to see that a spring is the source of power, but
   that power must be applied to the spring before the mechanism
   does its work. The preacher skilfully illustrated by these
   facts the importance of the soul, and the relation which it
   bears on the one hand to man and on the other to God. About
   twenty minutes were devoted to this illustration, after which
   the preacher quoted a number of texts from the Scriptures
   bearing upon the teaching of the value of the soul.--G. E.
   DAWSON, _Missionary Review of the World_.

    (3145)


                               SYMBOLISM

   In Japanese art every flower has a meaning. Certain flowers
   must never be seen together. Certain others must never be seen
   apart. Then, again, everything goes in threes--blossoms, boughs,
   or sprays. Even furniture has a meaning. The details of this
   etiquette are endless, and, to the Occidental mind, bewildering,
   unless one “has an imagination”--or, at least, an esthetic
   sense to which its poetic features can appeal.--MARSHALL P.
   WILDER, “Smiling ’Round the World.”

    (3146)


                                SYMBOLS

   The Chinese claim that they do not worship the idol in their
   devotions, but rather the thought or the spirit that the idol
   represents. So they worship at the shrine of “Long Life,”
   “Happiness,” “Offspring,” “Ancestors,” “Agriculture,” “Heaven,”
   “Earth,” “Rain,” “Sunshine.” The bat means happiness; the peach,
   long life; the pomegranate, many children; the dragon, power;
   indeed, everything has its significance. This explains their
   designs upon cloth, embroideries, cloisonne, and porcelain,
   every figure and stroke having its meaning. The material thing
   represents a thought.

Is there not a legitimate use of symbols? And may they not be made to
have a language that speaks through the senses to the soul?

    (3147)

       *       *       *       *       *

Symbols may have value to those who can interpret them, even if we can
not:

   An American lady was at a dinner party with Mr. Li Lo, the
   eminent Chinese philosopher, when she said:

   “May I ask why you attach so much importance to the dragon in
   your country? You know there is no such creature, don’t you? You
   have never seen one?”

   “My dear madam,” graciously answered the great Chinaman, “why do
   you attach so much importance to the Goddess of Liberty on your
   coins? You know there is no such lady, don’t you? You have never
   seen her, have you?”

    (3148)


   =Symbols Interpreting Realities=--See REALITIES, INVISIBLE.


                         SYMBOLS, THE VALUE OF

In a private letter, written to a local paper by a resident of
Cazenovia, N. Y., who is dwelling in Japan, the following was related:

   I must tell a story connected with the visit of our American
   fleet. One day, just as some of the troops were marching to the
   railroad station, an enormous arch which stood just in front of
   the station took fire. Instantly one of the Japanese soldiers
   climbed to the top and brought down the United States flag
   that hung over in his direction. No greater act of courtesy
   could be performed, according to Japanese ideas than to save
   our flag from harm. But when without a moment’s delay, one of
   our blue-jackets ran up the other side of the arch, as tho it
   were the rigging of a ship, and snatched the Japanese flag just
   before it fell, tho his hands were scorched and he was nearly
   choked by smoke from the burning evergreen, the crowds nearly
   went wild with excitement and could not stop cheering.

    (3149)


                               SYMPATHY

   When the great steamer receives its cargo the captain must
   correct the compass, neutralizing the influence of the iron
   cargo in the hold. And sympathy keeps the needle of justice
   turned toward the star, corrects the aberrations of the
   intellect.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (3150)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Dr. Dunning, of the _Congregationalist_, tells of a very
   near friend of his who visited Tiffany’s great jewelry store in
   New York. He was shown a magnificent diamond with its gleaming
   yellow light, and many other splendid stones. As he went along
   he saw one jewel that was perfectly lusterless, and he said:
   “That has no beauty about it at all.” But the friend with him
   put it in the hollow of his hand and shut his hand, and then in
   a few moments opened it, and he said: “What a surprize! There
   was not a place on it the size of a pinhead that did not gleam
   with the splendor of the rainbow.” And then he said: “What have
   you been doing with it?” His friend answered: “This is an opal.
   It is what we call the sympathetic jewel. It only needs contact
   with the human hand to bring out its wonderful beauty.”

Doctor Dunning adds: “All childhood needs is that the human hand should
touch it, and it will gleam with all the opalescent splendor that can
shine from heavenly minds.”

    (3151)

       *       *       *       *       *

    There are songs enough for the heroes,
      Who dwell on the heights of fame;
    I sing of the disappointed,
      Of one who has missed his aim.

    I sing with a tearful cadence,
      Of one who stands in the dark,
    And knows that his last, last arrow
      Has bounded back from the mark.

    For the hearts that break in silence,
      With a sorrow all unknown;
    For those who need companions,
      Yet must walk their way alone.

    (3152)

   See ACTING, ACTOR AFFECTED BY; KINSHIP; RAPPORT.


                      SYMPATHY BY PLEASURE-GOERS

   London to-night (May 6, 1910), with King Edward lying dead, is
   a despairing city. While the sun shone a dash more brilliantly
   than it has yet done on any day this year, the people seemed to
   extract the utmost particle of hope which the medical bulletins
   could be made to convey. But evening came cold, dismal, with
   rain drizzling from heavy skies, and the crowds lost heart. Long
   before the final news came--soon, indeed, after the issue of
   the later reports announcing that the King’s condition was most
   grave and that the hoped-for improvement had not set in, the
   streets were practically empty.

   It was curious to see how outside one theater where a popular
   success is running the queue which had formed alongside the pit
   and gallery doors melted away before the doors were opened. It
   was evident that these people, to whom a visit to a theater is
   such a treat that they stand for hours waiting to secure a seat,
   had no heart for musical comedy while their King lay at death’s
   door.--The New York _Times_.

    (3153)


   =Sympathy, Impelling=--See EXAMPLE, POWER OF.


                         SYMPATHY IN TEACHING

   In music you learn more in a week from a sympathetic teacher,
   or at least from some one who is so to you, than from another,
   however excellent, in a month. You will make no progress if he
   can give you no impulse.

   What a mystery lies in that word “teaching!” One will constrain
   you irresistibly, and another shall not be able to persuade
   you. One will kindle you with an ambition that aspires to what
   the day before seemed inaccessible heights, while another
   will labor in vain to stir your sluggish mood to cope with
   the smallest obstacle. The reciprocal relation is too often
   forgotten.--R. H. HAWEIS.

    (3154)


                           SYMPATHY, LACK OF

   Nothing is so likely to cause a man to lose his head as the
   conscious lack of sympathetic encompassment. Sometimes a single
   man will upset a sermon.

   I remember such a one who for many months was the plague of my
   life. He had taken offense at some public utterance of mine, and
   thereafter in his eyes I was _persona non grata_, a fact
   which he took a sort of savage satisfaction in making manifest
   in season and out of season, especially the latter.

   He would seem to be deeply interested in the opening exercises,
   but the moment when I rose to preach he would double up as if
   in pain, or avert his face and look wistfully toward the window
   as if murmuring to himself. “Oh, that I had wings like a dove,
   for then would I fly away and be at rest.” And then instead
   of “afflatus” I would be taken with a bad spell of “flat us.”
   It does not take many such hearers to kill a man.--P. S.
   HENSON, _Christian Endeavor World_.

    (3155)


                          SYMPATHY, PRACTICAL

   A little boy was riding in a street car, and, observing a kindly
   looking woman, he snuggled closely up to her, and unconsciously
   rubbed his dusty feet against her dress, when she leaned over to
   a woman on the other side of the little boy and said shortly,
   “Madam, will you kindly make your little boy take his feet off
   my dress?” The other woman said, “My boy? He isn’t my boy.” The
   little fellow squirmed uneasily, seemed to be greatly distrest,
   and looked disappointedly into the face of the woman who had
   disowned relationship to him. The woman whose attention had
   thus been called to the little boy presently observed that
   the child’s eyes were fastened upon her with a peculiarly
   wistful expression, and she said to him, “Are you going about
   alone?” “Yes, ma’am,” he replied, “I always go alone; father
   and mother are dead, and I live with Aunt Clara, and when she
   gets tired of me she sends me to Aunt Sarah, to stay as long
   as she will keep me; but they both tire of me so soon, I keep
   changing from one to the other; they don’t either of them care
   for little boys like me.” The woman’s heart was drawn to the
   motherless boy, and she said, “You are a very little boy to be
   traveling alone like this.” “Oh, I don’t mind,” said he, “only
   I get lonesome sometimes on these long trips, and when I see
   some one that I think I would like to belong to, I snuggle up
   close to her so that I can make believe I really do belong to
   her. This morning I was playing that I belonged to that other
   lady, and I forgot about my dirty shoes. But she would not let
   me belong to her. Do you like little boys?” The pitifulness of
   that appeal overcame all restraint of the woman’s feelings, and
   regardless of a car full of spectators, she put her arms around
   the tiny chap, hugged him close, and kissing him, said, “Yes,
   and I only wish you wanted to belong to me.” The boy looked at
   her with rapturous content, and replied, “I do.” And she said,
   “You shall,” and she adopted him.--JAMES T. WHITE,
   “Character Lessons.”

    (3156)


                            SYMPATHY, ROYAL

   King Victor Emmanuel returned to the ruins of Reggio to-day
   (January 1, 1909), and he has been indefatigable in succoring
   the afflicted. He traversed the ruins from one end to the other,
   comforting the sufferers and cheering the rescuers. At one
   point he came upon a man buried up to his waist in débris. He
   encouraged the unfortunate while the soldiers were digging him
   out. In the midst of the efforts at rescue the man cried:

   “Sire, I can wait for deliverance, but for God’s sake give me
   food and drink.”

   Meeting a group of photographers engaged in taking pictures, the
   King chided them for their occupation.

   “You had much better turn your efforts to succoring the
   afflicted,” said his Majesty.

    (3157)


   =Sympathy Wasted=--See FANCY, DECEPTIVE.


                   SYMPATHY WITH ONE’S OWN CREATIONS

A writer in _The Critic_ says:

   I once saw it recorded of George Eliot, as a thing marvelous,
   incredible, and unique, that she actually wept over her own
   creations. This fact, so stated, made me wonder at the ignorance
   of the writer. Does anybody suppose that a moving situation was
   ever yet depicted, the writing of which did not cost the author
   anguish and tears? How could he move his readers if he were not
   first moved himself? It is an elementary maxim; you may find it
   in Horace. But it is a sign that one possesses imagination if
   one can laugh over the fortunes of one’s own puppets.

    (3158)


                              SYNCHRONISM

There is a divine standard by which every man in the world can
accurately regulate his life as these clocks are regulated.

   The ease with which any number of electric clocks may be
   operated in synchronism is an advantage of no small moment. In
   factories, mills, and large manufacturing plants, where it is
   essential to have the exact time in all the rooms, the electric
   clock will prove of peculiar value. By removing the pendulums
   from all but one clock, with the others connected in circuit,
   the exact time can be kept with all the clocks in the plant.
   Furthermore, the regulation of timepieces by electric power from
   some central station is thus greatly simplified. With a wire
   running to the main clock of the plant, an exact regulation of
   all in the series could be instantly obtained. (Text.)--_The
   Electrical Age._

    (3159)


   =Synchrony=--See CHURCH, GUIDANCE FOR THE.


   =Syntax, Absurd=--See ENGLISH, ERRORS IN.


                            SYSTEM IN LABOR

A full week’s work may be well divided according to a plan.

   The father of Theodore Roosevelt was a wealthy business man and
   a Christian. A remarkable thing about him was that he worked
   five days a week attending strictly to business; one day he
   spent improving his own mind and heart, and one day doing good,
   visiting the poor and otherwise helping others. (Text.)

    (3160)


   =System versus Men=--See UNNATURAL EDUCATION.




                                   T


                      TABOOED TOPICS IN THE EAST

   The greatest danger of falling into verbal sin, perhaps, is that
   missionaries talk upon topics which are tabooed. For instance,
   you meet a friend whose shop is next to a house that has burned
   down, and you congratulate him upon it. It is an awful mistake,
   a most ill-omened remark. When Dr. Nassau, of Gabun, met
   some children and tried to cultivate the friendship of their
   mothers, he began to count them, which was unfortunate to the
   last degree. One can not talk about death in many countries
   without giving great offense. There are many other topics
   that are tabooed, but they can be learned about from native
   teachers.--H. P. BEACH, “Student Volunteer Movement,”
   1906.

    (3161)


                                 TACT

   In 1747 Mr. John Brown was invited to become the pastor of a
   church at Hingham. There was but one opponent to his settlement,
   a man whom Mr. Brown won over by a stroke of good humor. He
   asked for the grounds of his opposition. “I like your person
   and your manner,” was the reply, “but your preaching, sir, I
   disapprove.” “Then,” said Mr. Brown, “we are agreed. I do not
   like my preaching very well myself, but how great a folly it is
   for you and me to set up our opinion against that of the whole
   parish.” The force of this reasoning appealed to the man, and he
   at once withdrew his objections.--_The Argonaut._

    (3162)

       *       *       *       *       *

The impression that most people have regarding the life of kings and
queens is that of everything in a costly and magnificent style. One of
the admirable things about the life of King Edward VII at Sandringham
Palace was its simplicity.

   Court formality was laid aside and the king’s guests enjoyed
   themselves without restraint. As host and hostess King Edward
   and Queen Alexandra were notably hospitable, and the person
   who failed to enjoy himself at the royal table was indeed an
   unfortunate being. Many were the tales told about the king’s
   tact, as displayed toward his guests, not the least of which
   was one concerning the famous English sculptor, Alfred Gilbert.
   Gilbert received an invitation to Sandringham, and his servant,
   in the excitement of packing, omitted to put a pair of black
   shoes into his bag. When the sculptor arrived at the king’s
   residence he discovered, much to his dismay, that he must appear
   in tan shoes if he wished to attend dinner. His embarrassment
   was all the more keen because he was aware that the king
   disliked tan footgear. However, there was nothing for him to do
   but make the best of matters, and on the shoes went. In some
   mysterious manner word of Gilbert’s predicament reached the
   king’s ears, and when Edward appeared to greet his guest the
   latter was surprized to note that his host also wore tan shoes.

    (3163)

       *       *       *       *       *

   At Bannockburn Lord Randolph Murray was being sorely prest by a
   large body of cavalry. Sir James Douglas got leave from Bruce
   to go to his aid, but just as he came up he found the English
   in disorder, and many horses galloping away with empty saddles.
   “Halt!” he cried to his men; “These brave men have already
   repulsed the enemy; let us not diminish their glory by seeking
   to share it.”--WILLIAM MOODIE.

    (3164)

       *       *       *       *       *

Colonel Nicholas Smith, in “Grant the Man of Mystery,” says:

   Grant is often called “The Silent Man.” While he wrote with
   fluency and with great rapidity, it was difficult for him to
   express himself extemporaneously until after his Presidential
   career, and many interesting stories are told of his attempts to
   talk. A large body of ministers once called upon him and made
   a long address, to which he was compelled to reply. After a
   sentence or two, Mr. Fish noticed that his voice faltered, and
   fearing that he might be at a loss what to say, the secretary,
   standing next to him, caused a diversion by beginning to cough
   violently. The President afterward said to Mr. Fish, “How
   fortunate it was for me that you had that cough, as I had felt
   my knees begin to shake. I do not think that I could have spoken
   another word.”

    (3165)

       *       *       *       *       *

   We may please and help and comfort the very same persons whom
   we may by different treatment irritate, bringing out the worst
   where we might with tact bring out the best that is in them.
   You take a piece of ribbon-grass and rub it from end to end and
   admire its velvet smoothness; but as you then rub it the other
   way you find it is pricking you as if malignantly. And one of
   the mysteries of electricity is that the same magnet with which
   you can attract by presenting one pole will repel if you present
   the other. (Text.)

    (3166)


                             TACT, LACK OF

The natural effect of a lack of tact is seen in the man described
below, who used the means to offend the very person who was to decide
his fate.

   Under no circumstances can a missionary, worthy of the
   name, be ever induced to say anything that would wound the
   susceptibilities or grieve the heart of one of his heathen or
   Mohammedan auditors. That is not necessary. They tell the story
   of a judge in Aleppo. He had but one eye. A person was condemned
   to prison, as he thought, unjustly. He rose before the judge
   and said: “Oh, one-eyed judge, I am imprisoned here on a false
   accusation; and I tell you, oh, one-eyed judge, that this man
   who has testified against me has received a bribe; and oh,
   one-eyed judge, if I do not get justice, I will report this case
   to the pasha; and if the pasha do not do justice, oh, one-eyed
   judge, I will report it to the sultan himself.” The judge rose
   from his seat in a rage and said: “Take the man back to prison.
   I won’t hear him plead before me and call me forever a one-eyed
   judge.”--PIERSON, “The Miracles of Missions.”

    (3167)

       *       *       *       *       *

   It is a good story which Chauncey M. Depew tells of a dinner
   that the late King Edward as Prince of Wales once gave in
   honor of James G. Blaine, on one of his visits to England
   before he had even been a candidate for the Presidency. The
   one disagreeable man at the dinner was a duke of the royal
   house, who had a reputation for lack of tact. During a lull in
   conversation he blurted out: “The greatest outrage in history
   was the revolt of your people against King George III. There
   was no justification for it then, and there is no excuse for
   it now.” The prince, according to Dr. Depew, was plainly
   embarrassed. The one man who had the tactfulness to carry off
   the situation was Mr. Blaine who, in a carefully-modulated voice
   replied: “Perhaps if George III had possest as much diplomacy as
   his great-grandson, America might still be English.” The Prince
   of Wales, after the subject was passed, gript Blaine’s hands
   with a twinkle of admiration.--Boston _Transcript_.

    (3168)


   =Taint=--See IMPURE THOUGHTS.


   =Talent Neglected=--See NEGLECT OF DUTY.


   =Talent, Using the Best=--See ADVANTAGE, WORKING TO THE BEST.


                                TALENTS

Rev. G. Campbell Morgan tells this story:

   Some years ago a woman came to me at the close of the Sunday
   morning service and said, “Oh, I would give anything to be in
   this work actively and actually. I would give anything to have
   some living part in the work that is going on here next week in
   winning men and women to Christ, but I do not know what to do.”

   I said, “My sister, are you prepared to give the Master the
   five loaves and two fishes you possess?” She said, “I do not
   know that I have five loaves and two fishes.” I said, “Have
   you anything that you have used in any way specially?” “No,”
   she did not think she had. “Well,” I said, “can you sing?” Her
   reply was, “Yes, I sing at home, and I have sung before now in
   an entertainment.” “Well, now,” I said, “let us put our hand on
   that. Will you give the Lord your voice for the next ten days?”
   Said she, “I will.”

   I shall never forget that Sunday evening. I asked her to sing,
   and she sang. She sang the gospel message with the voice she
   had, feeling that it was a poor, worthless thing, and that night
   there came out of the meeting into the inquiry room one man.
   That man said to me afterward that it was the gospel that was
   sung which reached his heart; and from that day to this--that
   is now eleven or twelve years ago--that man has been one of
   the mightiest workers for God in that city and country I have
   ever known. How was it done? A woman gave the Master what she
   had.--_The Church Advocate._

    (3169)


                            TALENTS, BURIED

   Half a billion dollars is the value of the buried talent
   (hoarded money) of the United States, according to
   investigations made by the Federal Government, the conclusions
   of which recently were made public by Postmaster-General Meyer
   in _The Woman’s World_.

   Even at the rate proposed for postal depository savings, 2 per
   cent, the idleness of the $500,000,000 costs its possessors
   $10,000,000, a sum equal to the entire public debt of the United
   States in 1839, and almost as much as the Government spends
   annually in maintenance of Indians.

   However, money is accounted worth in business not less than 4
   per cent, and very few securities, particularly in the West,
   earn less than 4 per cent. The basis of computation of the
   $20,000,000 annual loss caused by the safety-deposit sort of
   security was that rate. In the industrial world money--and the
   very money that is now “hoarded”--is worth more than 4 per cent.
   The money panic of 1907 never would have happened if the buried
   talent of $500,000,000 had been in circulation, according to
   financial authorities.

As the buried talent is loss financially, so it is in every domain of
possibility. In the moral and spiritual life it is even worse; the
disinclination to use becomes in time inability to use. (Text.)

    (3170)


                            TALENTS DIFFER

Ralph Waldo Emerson teaches the lesson that everything is needed in its
own place, in this quaint bit of verse:

    The mountain and the squirrel
    Had a quarrel;
    And the former called the latter, “Little prig.”
    Bun replied,
    “You are doubtless very big,
    But all sorts of things and weather
    Must be taken in together,
    To make up a year
    And a sphere;
    And I think it no disgrace
    To occupy my place.
    If I’m not so large as you,
    You are not so small as I.
    Talents differ; all is well and wisely put;
    If I can not carry forests on my back,
    Neither can you crack a nut.” (Text.)

    (3171)


   =Tales That Won Fame=--See GENIUS CAN NOT BE HIDDEN.


   =Talk=--See CLUB WISDOM.


                         TALKING AND SICKNESS

   The Emmanuel movement in San Francisco, so far at least as
   it has to do with St. Luke’s Hospital, is a confest failure.
   The local experiment has lasted a year, and every effort, it
   is claimed, has been made to give the prescribed treatment
   a thorough test. The hospital’s psychopathic ward has been
   discontinued, and the clerical superintendent of the mental
   healing part of the institution, the Rev. A. P. Shields, D.D.,
   has sent in his resignation. “It was found,” says Bishop
   Nichols, “impossible to secure beneficial results by placing
   patients in a psychopathic ward associated with a hospital. All
   the depressing influences of the hospital bore down upon them.
   The constant atmosphere of suffering made a cure impossible,
   and, finally, we were forced to the conclusion that we had
   failed.” This same reasoning condemns the cause of those people
   outside of hospitals who are always talking of disease and
   fatalities (unless it be distinctly for curative purposes in
   the case of disease), so helping to make the more depressive
   the depression of mental and nervous sufferers. There are well
   people who always, by their lugubrious manner or talk, carry
   about with them the atmosphere of the sick-room--who are simply
   walking hospitals.--_The Observer._

    (3172)


   =Taming Animals=--See KINDNESS TO ANIMALS.


   =Tampering with Peril=--See TEMPTATION.


                            TASKS, THE REAL

   When I was a boy I was set by my father to the task of dipping
   all the water out of a spring-hole in the hay-field. I performed
   the task faithfully, thinking that the object was to empty the
   hole. But the next day I was obliged to tell my father that the
   task had gone for nothing, as the hole was as full as ever. I
   had merely removed certain accumulated impurities, which was the
   real object of the work.

So we often toil with definite objects in view when all the while
Providence is at work through us at a very different and always a more
important task. We may be disappointed that we have not emptied the
hole, or we may more wisely rejoice that we have freshened the spring.

    (3173)


   =Taste and Propriety Violated=--See MISSIONARIES’ MISTAKES.


   =Teacher, A Young=--See CHILD RELIGION.


                        TEACHER, THE COMPETENT

   I am reminded of a remark made to me recently by a gentleman in
   middle life, a very excellent carpenter, whom I saw watching my
   boys, twenty-four of them, at work making their first weld in
   the forging shop. He seemed intensely interested as he watched
   one of the young men at his work. I said: “You seem to like
   to see the boys work. Do you understand what they are doing?”
   “Yes,” said he, “I worked a year once in a blacksmith shop.”
   “Well,” said I, “then I suppose this operation of welding is a
   very simple matter to you.” “Not at all,” said he; “I never made
   a weld in my life. I never got a chance. I kindled the fire and
   blew the bellows, and I did some striking for other men; but
   they never let me try to make a weld.” Then he added, with a
   good deal of feeling, “These boys learn more in one week about
   the really essential art of forging than I learned in half a
   year.” And the secret of it is they have a thoroughly skilled
   workman who is competent both to teach and to demonstrate every
   principle involved.--CALVIN M. WOODWARD, “Journal of
   the National Education Association,” 1905.

    (3174)


                          TEACHER, THE IDEAL

Dr. Ernest Fox Nichols, the new president of Dartmouth College, gives
this bit of classic advice to teachers:

   In twenty years of teaching and observation, I have become
   convinced of some things connected with teaching as a
   profession. No teacher can hope to inspire and lead young men to
   a level of aspiration above that on which he himself lives and
   does his work. Young men may reach higher levels, but not by his
   aid. The man in whose mind truth has become formal and passive
   ought not to teach. What youth needs to see is knowledge in
   action, moving forward toward some worthy end. In nobody’s mind
   should it be possible to confuse intellectual with ineffectual.
   Let it not be said:

    We teach and teach
    Until like drumming pedagogs we lose
    The thought that what we teach has higher ends
    Than being taught and learned.

   It ought to be impossible, even in satire, to say, “Those who
   can, do; those who can’t, teach.”

    (3175)


                      TEACHER, THE IDEAL, AT WORK

   In the photographic studio it is not enough to have a favorable
   light, expensive lenses, and the latest arrangement of shutters
   and slides. It is not enough to have fair women and brave men
   before the camera. It is not enough to have a perfect plate,
   ready to respond to the faintest ray of light; there must also
   be a skilled operator, who shall moderate the glare, arrange the
   shadows, measure the distance, adjust the instrument, calculate
   the exposure, pose the sitters, engage the attention, and at the
   psychologico-photographic moment spring the shutter.

   In like fashion the artist-teacher deals with his carefully
   sensitized pupil as he prepares to take a picture worth
   developing. Deftly he arranges each detail and improves every
   condition; then he unveils before him some image of truth and
   beauty wrought by skilful hands and eagerly awaits the results.
   If he succeeds, he knows it without troublesome delay. He
   glances swiftly about his class, detecting here and there a
   pupil who responds, “his rapt soul sitting in his eyes”; and the
   instructor glows with the consciousness that his labors have not
   been in vain.--D. O. S. LOWELL, “Proceedings of the
   Religious Education Association,” 1905.

    (3176)


                        TEACHERS, ALERTNESS OF

   It is an interesting commentary on the earnestness and
   professional zeal of the teachers as a class, that they are
   in such large numbers willing to spend no inconsiderable
   portion of their summer vacation, and no small part of their
   scant earnings, in paying board, tuition, and incidentals at
   some summer watering-place to pursue their studies, brushing
   up neglected places in their education, and fitting themselves
   for higher and better work in their profession. Especially is
   this noticeable when we find them spending several weeks in
   close attendance upon the teaching and lectures of the most
   famous experts the country has produced, getting hints, and more
   than hints--principles--of the best methods of teaching the
   common-school studies.--_Journal of Education._

    (3177)


                        TEACHER’S FUNCTION, THE

   You look into the face of a mirror, and an image is before
   you--more truthful, if less flattering, than that which the
   photographer produces. You pass on, and another comes and looks
   into the same mirror; but it tells no tales of you, revives no
   recollection. A thousand persons pass before the glass, and when
   the day is done, it is just as brilliant and just as vacant as
   when it made its first reflection. Do we desire a likeness that
   shall endure? Science must come to our aid with its camera and
   its chemicals; the image must be caught upon a sensitized plate
   or film and then fixt so it shall not fade.

   In like manner the teacher may hold up a truth before an
   untrained pupil. It may be beautiful and inspiring, as reflected
   in the mirror of the pupil’s mind. He may understand it, assent
   to it, even enjoy it; but he may also forget it as he looks
   upon the next picture. To prevent such loss, it becomes the
   teacher’s function to see that his pupil’s mind is not a mere
   mirror from whose polished surface glide these bright images in
   swift succession, but a sensitized plate on which truths may
   be photographed and fixt. (Text.)--D. O. S. LOWELL,
   “Proceedings of the Religious Education Association,” 1905.

    (3178)


   =Teacher’s Kindness=--See EFFACEMENT OF SINS.


   =Teaching=--See NEGATIVE TEACHING.


   =Teaching Sympathetically=--See SYMPATHY IN TEACHING.


                       TEACHING VERSUS PRACTISE

   A Chinese legend tells of an old sage who sat at a fountain. The
   three founders of the principal religions of the land met him
   there looking for an apostle to carry his message to men. Said
   he in explanation of the reason why he did not go himself and
   carry his own message: “I can not go because only the upper part
   of me is flesh and blood--the lower part is stone. I can talk
   but can not walk. I can teach virtue, but I can not follow its
   teaching.”

The legend seems to be a parabolic way of pointing out the well-known
fact that it is far easier to preach than to practise.

    (3179)


                           TEARS AND FEELING

   The higher the pitch of refinement, the less the fall of tears.
   This is true of both sexes, but especially of men, and in men
   in proportion to the fulness of their manhood. Children, of
   whichever sex, cry at their own cross will, but the schoolboy
   will hardly shed tears when he is flogged; the young man is
   ashamed to weep when he is hurt by a fall, except into love;
   while the full-bearded adult has completely triumphed over
   feeling. All these statements are true with a difference among
   nations, due to climatic, historic, or other influences. One of
   the mysteries of tears is that tho, as the ministers of emotion,
   they start to assuage sorrow, yet when a mighty grief strikes
   us they withhold their relief. Petty troubles not only express
   themselves, but are garrulous; the great are silent from sore
   amazement. Friends, brothers, sisters and children can weep over
   the pallid face, but the wife or mother looks on her dead with
   wild, unmoistened eyes. Niobe is turned into stone; and, most
   dreadful of all, she is conscious that she has been petrified
   to her inmost soul.--J. T. L. PRESTON, _Atlantic
   Monthly_.

    (3180)


                            TEARS, POWER OF

      Boast not of the roaring river,
      Of the rocks its surges shiver,
    Nor of torrents over precipices hurled,
      For a simple little tear-drop,
      That you can not even hear drop,
    Is the greatest water-power in all the world.

    --Chicago _Tribune_.

    (3181)


   =Technical Education, The Effect of=--See EDUCATION, HIGHER.


                            TECHNICALITIES

   Lord Clarendon, in describing the fire in the Temple, London, in
   1666, says: “The Lord Mayor, tho a very honest man, was much
   blamed for want of sagacity in the first night of the fire,
   before the wind gave it much advancement. When men who were
   less terrified with the object prest him very earnestly that
   he would give orders for the present pulling down those houses
   which were nearest, and by which the fire climbed to go further,
   the doing whereof at that time might probably have prevented
   much of the mischief that succeeded, he thought it not safe, and
   made no other answer than that he durst not do it without the
   consent of the owners. His want of skill was the less wondered
   at when it was known afterward that some gentlemen of the Inner
   Temple would not endeavor to preserve the goods which were in
   the lodgings of absent persons, because they said it was against
   the law to break up any man’s chamber.”--CROAKE JAMES,
   “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (3182)


   =Teeth, The Value of Good=--See ASSIMILATION.


   =Teleology=--See WORK DIVINELY INTENDED.


   =Telephone Possibilities Discredited=--See OPPORTUNITY LOST.


   =Temperament=--See ENVIRONMENT.


                              TEMPERANCE

That chronic alcoholism among the Russians may explain, in part, at
least, some of the results of the war in Manchuria, is the editorial
opinion of _American Medicine_. Says this paper:

   On the Japanese side the reports are all of one tenor, and
   depict an almost universal abstinence. What drinking is done
   is in extreme moderation. Upon the Russian side we hear of
   immense stores of vodka, champagne by carload lots, and orgies
   innumerable. The Russian officer is notorious, by general
   report, of course, for the large quantities of alcohol he daily
   consumes, and it is impossible for any brain to submit to such
   insults without undergoing the changes long known to take
   place in heavy drinkers. It is not remarkable then that the
   older officers, who are managing the campaign, are constantly
   outwitted by the healthy-minded Japanese. (Text.)

    (3183)

       *       *       *       *       *

   In April, 1838, William Martin knocked at Father Mathew’s door
   in obedience to a summons. The friar met him at the threshold,
   his handsome face radiant with kindness and good-nature.

   “Welcome, Mr. Martin, welcome! I have sent for you to assist me
   in forming a temperance society in this neighborhood.”

   “I knew it,” said the Quaker; “something seemed to tell me that
   thou would’st do it at last.”

   “For long I could not see my way clearly to take up the
   question. I have been asked by several good men to take up the
   cause, and I feel I can no longer refuse. How are we to begin?”

   They began with a little meeting in the friar’s school-room,
   when Father Mathew, after his address on temperance, said,
   “I will be the first to sign my name in the book which is on
   the table, and I hope we shall soon have it full.” He then
   approached the table; and, taking the pen, said in a loud voice,
   “Here goes, in the name of God!”

   In three months from the day that Father Mathew signed the book
   “in the name of God,” the number on the roll was 25,000; in
   five months it rose to 131,000; in less than nine months it was
   156,000.--EDWARD GILLIAT, “Heroes of Modern Crusades.”

    (3184)

       *       *       *       *       *

John B. Gough, the temperance orator and reformer, asked that on his
monument the following sentiment should be cut:

   I can desire nothing better for this great country than that a
   barrier, high as heaven, should be raised between the unpolluted
   lips of the children and the intoxicating cup; that everywhere
   men and women should raise strong and determined hands against
   whatever will defile the body, pollute the mind, or harden the
   heart against God and His truth.

    (3185)

   See ABSTAINERS LIVE LONG; DRINK, PERIL OF; LONGEVITY ACCOUNTED FOR;
     PERSONAL INFLUENCE.


   =Temperance and Prosperity=--See PROHIBITION.


                        TEMPERANCE IN THE PRESS

   So far as their advertising sections are concerned, our great
   magazines are rapidly “going dry,” asserts the _Sunday-school
   Times_ (Philadelphia), after an investigation of some
   sixty of our popular monthly and weekly publications. In this
   investigation “strictly agricultural and other class papers,
   whether trade or religious publications, were not considered,
   it being the purpose to limit this inquiry to the secular
   magazine of general interest.” Of the sixty editors who were
   asked whether their periodicals accepted or refused the
   advertisements of intoxicating liquors, forty put themselves
   on record as absolutely excluding such advertisements. While
   the list does not approach completeness, the _Sunday-school
   Times_ claims for it that it is typical.

    (3186)


                        TEMPERANCE, RESULTS OF

The social results of Father Mathew’s temperance reform in Ireland were
as follows:

   In four years from 1837 to 1841 homicides decreased from 247 to
   105; assaults on the police, from 91 to 58; incendiary fires,
   from 459 to 390; robberies, from 725 to 257. The sentences
   of death were decreased from 66 in 1839, to only 14 in 1846,
   and transportation to penal settlements from 916 to 504.
   Father Mathew said: “Every teetotaler has gained morally and
   intellectually by the movement, but my immediate family have
   been absolutely and totally ruined by this temperance mission.”

    (3187)


                              TEMPERATURE

   Many things depend upon temperature--the psychological climate
   of the soul. Sometimes in mountain regions you will see clouds
   gathering around the mountain peak, and staying there in spite
   of a strong wind blowing. You wonder how that is. It is cold up
   there, and the warm air, vapor-laden, climbing up the side of
   the mountain, reaching that cool region, makes clouds as fast
   as the winds can blow them away. Which thing is an allegory.
   There are psychological climates which make clouds, and there
   are other psychological climates which make clearness; and
   cloud and clearness do not depend upon purely intellectual and
   syllogistic operations, but upon something deeper by far--the
   attitude of the will toward God and righteousness. That is the
   significant thing. And there we come upon a doctrine which we
   have only recently begun to emphasize speculatively, a doctrine
   of pragmatism, a doctrine which Christianity has always held,
   that “if any man wills to do the will of God, he shall know.”
   And I fancy he will never know in any other way. It is the
   will. One must “will to do the will” of God; then he shall
   know. Of course, it does not mean that he shall know all about
   the metaphysics of the Athanasian Creed, or the “Thirty-nine
   Articles.” But it means that he who thus wills to do the will
   of God shall come out into practical assurance, on the right
   track. It means that he is not alone, but the Father is with
   him.--Prof. BORDEN P. BOWNE, _Zion’s Herald_.

    (3188)


   =Temple Extravagance=--See EGOTISM.


   =Temples, Christian versus Heathen=--See RELIGIONS CONTRASTED.


   =Temporary Helps=--See _Shoring Up_.


                              TEMPTATION

   C. G. D. Roberts tells of the capture of a great eagle at the
   head waters of the St. John River in the Northwest. The eagle
   occasionally found its food at the edge of a lake where the
   fish came into the shallow water. One morning he found on the
   spot a great stone which aroused its suspicions, and perched
   on the stump of an old tree to watch matters. Nothing further
   happening, it went down and hopped on the stone and breakfasted
   as before. It did this for several days, when one morning he
   found a stick laid across the stone in a slanting position with
   something hanging loosely from the upper end. Further suspicion
   led to a closer examination, but, satisfied again, he ate as
   before. This he did for several days, becoming more careless and
   confident, until one day while enjoying his morning meal on that
   stone and hopping about, an Indian hidden in the reeds pulled
   two strings, dropping the stick and unloosing the meshes of a
   net around the eagle and caught it.

    (3189)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A little Jewish newsboy was selling evening papers among the
   clerks in a large office in one of our great cities. Unawares,
   as he approached the cashier, he found himself right next to
   an open cash-drawer overflowing with coin. The little fellow’s
   eyes shone at the sight. But, quicker than a wink, he stept
   back beyond reach, and nothing would induce him to approach any
   nearer, even to sell a paper, until the drawer had been shut.

   I happen to know that this little fellow comes from a home
   of poverty, where there are many children and little time or
   strength is left for parental training of the children, and that
   the poor boy often goes hungry, finding it too far to go home
   for a bite, and not daring to spend a copper of his hard-earned
   treasures for any self-indulgence.

   But how many native boys of ten years of age, think you, would
   have had the moral perception, the strength of character, and
   the quickness to act that was exhibited by this little son of
   a poor immigrant family? (Text.)--GEORGE W. COLEMAN,
   “Search-lights.”

    (3190)

       *       *       *       *       *

   There were two ways in which the ancients kept from yielding to
   the music and final destruction of the Sirens. Ulysses fortified
   himself with bonds that held him fast to the mast while his
   boat carried him, listening, by the seductive strains. The
   Argonauts carried Orpheus with them in their boat, and were so
   engrossed in listening to his music that they never even heard
   the tempting sounds from the shore. (Text.)

    (3191)


   =Temptation, a Boy’s=--See SLOWNESS.


   =Temptation and Desire=--See DESIRES, INORDINATE.


                      TEMPTATION, PLAUSIBILITY OF

During the Boxer troubles in China, the greatest stress was brought
upon the native Christians to have them recant their faith. Dr. Li, a
Christian physician of Peking, was not only in imminent peril of his
life, but, to add to his anxiety, kind but mistaken friends were urging
him to pursue a questionable course of action in order that his life
might be saved. One of his friends of the nobility came to him and said:

   Things are getting worse and worse. Allow me to put a few idols
   in your room, and if the Boxers come they will think you are
   not Christians. Now, I knew that this was Satan’s plan. I was
   in a difficulty. Could I refuse my protector’s request, and so
   endanger him? But God gave me wisdom and words so that I was
   able to keep clean, and yet not to offend my friend, who was so
   genuinely anxious for my safety.

On another occasion, as he was trying to escape from the city, he says:

   Just as I was about to start, some one urged me to carry some
   strings of paper money in my hand, “for,” said he, “then people
   will imagine you are going to burn it at a grave.” This seemed
   a very simple and safe expedient; but I would not agree to it,
   because I felt it would, after all, be nothing short of a denial
   of Christ. (Text.)

    (3192)


                          TEMPTATION RESISTED

Ever since that bait was offered to the Redeemer and rejected, the
tempter has been constantly setting the perilous alternative before
the souls of men. The glittering bait is specially dangled before
the greatest and noblest souls, and these prove their greatness and
nobility by exchanging it for a cross.

   Both John Knox and Richard Baxter were offered by carnal state
   powers a bishopric in the Erastian Church. How unspeakably
   poorer would have been the religious history of both Scotland
   and England had these men found their popular success in
   ecclesiastical preferment! To-day Spinoza is honored for
   declining the fortune that was offered to him, and it is
   refreshing to read how Diderot instantly said “No” to the bribe
   of a hundred thousand francs a year from Catharine the Great
   to become a member of her court. It is the glory of the memory
   of Faraday that he declared “He could not afford to be rich.”
   Cobden stood for the poor, and therefore he stood out against
   Palmerston’s offer of a baronetcy and a seat in his Cabinet.
   Gold weighed heavy then, as now, but it did not outweigh the
   souls of these heroes. (Text.)

    (3193)


                         TEMPTATION TWO-SIDED

   A lad of seventeen was telling an older friend, recently, of
   an experience he had had that day. As the apprentice of a
   carpenter, he had been sent to a saloon to take the measures for
   a new counter. It was very cold weather, and he arrived with his
   teeth fairly chattering in his head, for his coat was thin. The
   saloon-keeper immediately mixt a hot drink and pushed it over
   the counter to him. “It’ll cost you nothing,” he said; “drink it
   down, and you’ll soon stop shivering, my boy.”

   “He meant it kindly, too, and didn’t think any harm,” said the
   apprentice, as he told the story. “That’s what made it harder to
   push it back, and I didn’t want it.”

   “It must have been a big temptation,” said the friend. “That
   saloon-keeper might have started you on the road to ruin.”

   “Well,” replied the lad frankly, “I’d rather have had it than
   some other kinds. You see, it takes two to make a temptation.
   There’s no saloon-keeper and no cold weather can make me drink
   when I don’t want to. The temptation I’m afraid of is the one
   that I’m ready for before it comes, by hankering after it. I
   don’t take much credit to myself for refusing that drink; and,
   if I had taken it, why, I wouldn’t have put all the blame on the
   saloon-keeper, as some folks do. It takes two, every time, to
   make a successful temptation.”

   It was an honest way to look at the question. Temptation is
   not all a matter of outward happening, but also of inner
   readiness. No outsider can be responsible for our sins as we
   are responsible. “He tempted me” only explains one side of the
   temptation. The other side--the personal side--we must answer
   for, and no excuse will save us. “It takes two,” and one of the
   two is always our own responsible self.--_Michigan Christian
   Advocate._

    (3194)


   =Temptations=--See CURVES OF TEMPTATION.


                               TENACITY

   After Grant got fairly well started in his studies, the best
   he could say for himself is in this characteristic sentence
   to his father: “I don’t expect to make very fast progress,
   but I will try to hold on to what I get.” Here was somewhat a
   foreshadowing of the bulldog tenacity which afterward made him
   so famous.--NICHOLAS SMITH, “Grant, the Man of Mystery.”

    (3195)

   See CLINGING BY FAITH.


   =Tenacity of Birth and Training=--See ARISTOCRACY, INGRAINED.


                         TENDENCIES, INHERITED

   From earliest childhood, says his mother, Charles Hamilton (the
   aviator), has given unmistakable evidence of his desire to leave
   the earth and invade the skies. The mother--who, with perfect
   confidence in his ability, saw her son go aloft in an aeroplane
   for the first time and immediately wanted to take a trip on it
   with him--dates her first realization of this fact to the day
   when Charles, but eight years old, surreptitiously borrowed her
   best parasol, climbed with it tightly clutched in his hands
   to the eaves of the barn, and then jumped off, employing the
   parasol parachute-wise to break his fall.

   He not only broke his fall, but he completely smashed the
   parasol in that little escapade. But his mother did not have the
   heart to punish the child for his act because, as she put it, “I
   realized that, after all, it was only the budding desire to fly
   that I myself have felt since early girlhood. How could I punish
   my boy for doing what I always had wanted to do?”

   The interim between that barn-and-parasol episode of Hamilton’s
   achievement of his insatiable ambition--to fly--was the matter
   of only a few years. He managed to get a balloon man, who was
   giving exhibitions in a spherical gas bag just outside of New
   Britain, to take him up. From that moment his fever to invade
   the sky knew no bounds, and, as he himself put it only a few
   days ago, never is he happier than when up in his aeroplane
   doing the now-famous Hamilton dip.

   After a lapse of several years, during which he left his beloved
   machinery and aerial paraphernalia long enough to get in some
   schooling, Hamilton turned his attention to ballooning on his
   own account. Then kites of all fashions, shapes and sizes took
   up his attention. The dirigible balloon coming in, he turned
   to that, and for four years gave exhibitions that startled the
   world by their daring and success. Then he returned to the kite
   end of the game, working with Israel Ludlow along those lines
   of aviation. Finally he made his first aeroplane ascension, and
   since then he has done almost everything possible to do with a
   heavier-than-air machine of the present-day type.

    (3196)


                               TENDENCY

    One ship drives east and another west
      With the self-same winds that blow.
    ’Tis the set of the sails and not the gales
      Which tell us the way to go.
    Like the winds of the sea are the waves of fate,
      As we voyage along through life.
    ’Tis the set of the soul which decides the goal,
      And not the calm, nor the strife.

    (3197)


                              TENDERNESS

“The tenderest are the bravest; the loving are the daring.” This finds
its illustration in an incident related by the wife of Gen. George E.
Pickett, of the Confederate army, just after his famous Gettysburg
charge:

   One Sunday, just after the battle, when he was in Richmond
   recruiting his division, we were walking to church together,
   when we saw a little Hebrew child, standing first on one foot
   and then on the other, rubbing his eyes with very dirty hands,
   and crying as if his heart would break.

   “What is the matter, little man?” my Soldier asked.

   “My shoes is hurtin’ my feet so, I can’t walk! I can’t get
   anywhere!” the boy sobbed. General Pickett knelt down, unlaced
   the shoes, took them off, tied them together, wiped away the
   muddy tears with his own clean handkerchief, and, taking the
   child in his arms, carried him to his home. (Text.)

    (3198)


   =Tenderness, Contrasted=--See DESTINY.


                           TENDERNESS OF GOD

   I have seen bullets made out of cold lead, crusht into shape
   in the steel grip of a machine; and I have heard that gold and
   silver, tho cold, are stamped into money by a powerful steel
   die; but when God would mold a man to His will He warms the wax
   before He presses His seal upon it.--FRANKLIN NOBLE,
   “Sermons in Illustration.”

    (3199)


                            TENSION, MORAL

The German marshal, von Manteuffel, in a speech made in
Alsace-Lorraine, said:

   War! Yes, gentlemen, I am a soldier. War is the element of the
   soldier, and I should like to taste it. That elevated sentiment
   of commanding in battle, of knowing that the bullet of the enemy
   may call you any moment before God’s tribunal, of knowing that
   the fate of the battle, and consequently the destiny of your
   country, may depend on the orders which you give--this tension
   of mind and of feelings is divinely great. (Text.)

    (3200)


   =Terminology, Christian=--See GOD FIRST.


   =Terminology, Fear of=--See MOODS OF THE SPIRIT.


   =Terror=--See FRIGHT.


   =Test of Character=--See BUSINESS A TEST OF CHARACTER.


                         TESTIMONY, A SHEEP’S

   One of the occupations in Australia is sheep-raising. There are
   large ranches upon which many sheep and lambs find food, and the
   shepherds guard their own.

   One day a man was arrested for stealing a sheep. The man claimed
   that the sheep was his own, that it had been missing from his
   flock for some days, but as soon as he saw the animal he knew
   him.

   The other man claimed the sheep, and said he had owned him since
   he was a lamb, and that he had never been away from the flock.

   The judge was puzzled how to decide the matter. At last he sent
   for the sheep. He first took the man in whose possession the
   sheep was found to the courtyard, and told him to call the sheep.

   The animal made no response, only to raise his head and look
   frightened, as if in a strange place and among strangers.

   Bidding the officers take the man back to the court-room, he
   told them to bring down the defendant. The accused man did not
   wait until he entered the yard, but at the gate, and where the
   sheep could not see him, he began a peculiar call. At once the
   sheep bounded toward the gate, and by his actions showed that a
   familiar voice was calling.

   “His own knows him,” said the judge. (Text.)

    (3201)


                          TESTIMONY, FRUIT OF

James Henry Potts, D.D., in his book, “The Upward Leading,” relates
this incident:

   An obscure Highland boy, whose parents had taught him to revere
   God, became a marine on board a British man-of-war. When a
   battle raged and the deck was swept by a tremendous broadside
   from the enemy, the captain, James Haldane, a profane man,
   ordered another company on deck to take the place of the dead.
   At sight of the mangled remains of their comrades, the marines
   became panic-stricken and ungovernable. The captain raved at
   them, condemning them all to the tortures of hell.

   Up stept the Highlander, and touching his hat, says, “Captain, I
   believe God hears prayer; if He hears yours, what will become of
   us?” When the battle was over, Captain Haldane reflected on the
   words of the brave marine, became interested in the claims of
   religion, surrendered his heart to God, became a preacher of the
   gospel and pastor of a church in Edinburgh.

   Through his instrumentality his brother, Robert Haldane, was
   brought to reflection, became a decided Christian, settled in
   Geneva, stirred up Protestantism there, and became the means of
   leading a large number of theological students in the light,
   among the number being J. H. Merle D’Aubigne, author of the
   immortal “History of the Reformation,” and the father of the
   Rev. Dr. D’Aubigne, whose visit to the United States served to
   create new interest in the evangelical religion of France.

Dr. Potts might have added that out of that Bible class of Haldane,
at Geneva came every conspicuous evangelical leader of France in the
latter part of the century.

    (3202)


                        TESTIMONY INDISPUTABLE

Elder Chang, a Christian from the Scotch Presbyterian Mission in
Manchuria, recently visited Pyeng Yang, Korea, and gives the following
report of what he learned:

   Being strangers, we naturally looked up some Chinese merchants,
   who, however, were not Christians. “Who are you?” they asked
   us. “Christians from Manchuria.” “Are there, then, Christians
   in Manchuria also?” asked the Chinese. “Oh, yes, many of them.”
   “Are they the same sort as the Christians here?” “We don’t
   know. What are the Christians here like?” “Good men. Good men.”
   “Why do you think so?” asked the Korean elder. “Oh, a man owed
   us an account five years ago of twenty dollars. He refused to
   acknowledge more than ten, and we had no redress. A few months
   ago he became a Christian and came and asked us to turn up that
   old account, and insisted on paying it up with interest for
   all these years.” Instances like this are happening all over
   Korea.--_Missionary Review of the World._

    (3203)


                          TESTIMONY OF NATURE

   It is by carefully noting small and apparently insignificant
   things and facts that men of science are enabled to reach
   some of their most surprizing and interesting conclusions. In
   many places the surface of rocks, which millions of years ago
   must have formed sandy or muddy sea beaches, is found to be
   pitted with the impressions of rain-drops. In England it has
   been noticed that in many cases the eastern sides of these
   depressions are the more deeply pitted, indicating that the
   rain-drops which formed them were driven before a west wind.
   From this the conclusion is drawn that in the remote epoch when
   the pits were formed the majority of the storms in England came
   from the west, just as they do to-day.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (3204)


   =Testimony of Service=--See WITNESS OF SERVICE.


                           TESTIMONY OF WORK

   A story is told of a poor woman who, by reason of her poverty,
   was kept from many a service for her Lord which she feared He
   might require at her hands--and she was dying. She was saying to
   her young daughter, who stood near the bed, that she regretted
   her fruitless life, and was wishing that she might have more to
   show the Master when she met Him face to face. “Mother,” sobbed
   the daughter, “show Him your fingers.” Her hands were calloused
   with work she had done unselfishly for others in her Master’s
   name. (Text.)

    (3205)


   =Testing=--See PERMANENT, THE; TRIAL A MEANS OF GRACE.


                                 TESTS

An English writer says:

   About fifty years ago two eminent French chemists visited
   London, and rather “astonished the natives” by a curious feature
   of their dress. They wore on their hats large patches of colored
   paper. It was litmus paper, and their object in attaching it to
   their hats was to test the impurities of the London atmosphere.
   Blue litmus paper, as everybody knows nowadays, turns red when
   exposed to an acid. The French chemists found that their hat
   decorations changed color, and indicated the presence of acid
   in the air of London; but when they left the metropolis and
   wandered in the open fields their blue litmus paper retained
   its original color. By using alkaline paper they contrived to
   collect enough of the acid to test its composition. They found
   it to be the acid which is formed by the burning of sulfur, and
   attributed its existence to the sulfur of our coal.

It would be well if we all had some kind of moral “litmus paper” with
which to test our moral atmosphere. Is not God’s spirit in us such a
testing instrument? (Text.)

    (3206)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Oriental cloth merchants call in the sun as an expert witness
   in determining the quality of the finer products of the loom.
   Servants of the seller pass the web slowly between the purchaser
   and the sun. If no blemish is revealed by the flood of light
   which this incorruptible witness pours through warp and woof,
   the piece is passed and paid for as perfect. Every language
   used by these dealers has its word meaning, “judged by the sun.”
   Greek merchants, in New Testament times, advertised “sun-judged”
   cloth in all the market-places. (Text.)

Paul uses this practise as a figure of speech in Phil. 1:10. To be
“sincere and without offense,” means to be able to pass severe tests
like the sun test.

    (3207)

       *       *       *       *       *

_The Chautauquan_ gives an account of Greek coins from which is
taken the following extract:

   In spite of the guarantee that might be afforded by the mark
   of a state or a prince, we find the Greeks applying certain
   tests to determine the genuineness of the currency offered to
   them. Plating was easily detected by jabbing the suspected coin
   with some sharp instrument. At other times the touch-stone was
   used. One which was known as the “Lydian stone” was supposed
   to reveal a proportion of foreign metal as small as a barley
   corn in a stater. Another test, in the case of silver, was to
   polish the coin, and then breathe on it. If the moisture quickly
   disappeared the metal was pure. Yet another way to detect alloy
   was to heat the coin, or coins, on red-hot iron. If the metal
   was unalloyed it remained bright; if mixt with other substances,
   it turned black or red according as it was more or less impure.
   (Text.)

    (3208)

   See IDEAS, POWER OF.


                           TESTS OF FITNESS

   When the Rodah Bridge at Cairo was practically finished as far
   as the structural work itself was concerned, it was put to an
   official test. The testing was minute, complex and severe in
   character. Dead weights of sand and steel rails were piled up
   on each pier in succession, exerting a pressure of 1,000 tons.
   Subsequently live weights of steam-rollers, tramcars, loaded
   with sand and water-carts filled with water were run on the
   bridge while an immense pressure was brought to bear on the
   bridge. If no fault or strain was visible in the material, then
   it was ready for use.

Happy is the man who will cheerfully bear every burden he is called
upon to bear, knowing that he is being made ready for usefulness.

    (3209)


                            TESTS, PERSONAL

   General Nelson A. Miles, when head of the army, used to be
   continually besieged by cranks with pneumatic rapid-firing guns,
   dirigible war balloons, and other martial inventions. But the
   general would weed these cranks out with admirable speed. An
   inventor, quoted in the New York _Independent_, says:

   “I sat in his office with him one day when a servant brought in
   a card. ‘Oh, send him in,’ said General Miles. ‘His business
   won’t take more than a minute or two.’ So in came a wild-eyed,
   long-haired man, twisting his soft hat nervously in both hands.
   ‘General,’ he said, ‘I have here’--and he took out a small
   parcel--‘a bullet-proof army coat. If the Government would adopt
   this--’ ‘Put it on. Put it on,’ said General Miles, and he rang
   the bell. The servant appeared as the inventor was getting
   into the coat. ‘Jones,’ said the general, ‘tell the captain of
   the guard to order one of his men to load his rifle with ball
   and cartridge and--’ ‘Excuse me, general, I forgot something,’
   interrupted the inventor, and with a hunted look he disappeared.”

    (3210)


   =Text Finding=--See EARLY RELIGION.


                           TEXT, POWER OF A

The effect which the Word of God sometimes has is illustrated in the
following incident related of Robert Moffat, missionary in Africa:

   In the large kitchen, where the service was to be held, stood
   a long table, at the head of which sat the Boer, with his wife
   and six grown children. A large Bible lay on the table, and
   underneath it half a dozen dogs. The Boer pointed to the Bible
   as the signal for Mr. Moffat to begin. But, after vainly waiting
   for others to come in, he asked how soon the working people were
   to be called. “Work-people?” impatiently cried the farmer; “you
   don’t mean the Hottentots--the blacks! You are not waiting for
   them, surely, or expecting to preach to them; you might as well
   preach to those dogs under that table!” A second time, and more
   angrily, he spoke, repeating the offensive comparison.

   Young as Mr. Moffat was, he was disconcerted only for a moment.
   Lifting his heart to God for guidance, the thought came into
   his mind to take a text suggested by the rude remarks of the
   Boer. So he opened the Bible to the fifteenth of Matthew and
   twenty-seventh verse: “Truth, Lord; yet the dogs eat of the
   crumbs which fall from their master’s table.” Pausing a moment,
   he slowly repeated these words with his eyes steadily fixt on
   the face of the Boer; and again pausing, a third time recited
   the appropriate words. Angrily the Boer cried out, “Well,
   well, bring them in.” A crowd of blacks then thronged the
   kitchen, and Moffat preached to them all the blessed Word of
   God.--PIERSON, “The Miracles of Missions.”

    (3211)

       *       *       *       *       *

The following incident shows how an apparently chance occurrence may
bring conviction through the word of Scripture:

   While in the St. Louis jail, Burke had obtained a copy of a city
   paper which published a sermon by Mr. Moody, then preaching
   in St. Louis. This paper announced the topic of Mr. Moody’s
   sermon in a sensational headline, “How the Jailer at Philippi
   was Caught.” Burke thought the reference was to the town of
   Philippi in Illinois, a place of which he knew; and he began
   to read what he supposed to be jail news. He became interested
   as he read on. Nine times in the sermon he came upon the text,
   “Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved.” It
   imprest him so deeply that in the cell that night for the first
   time Burke prayed. Soon after he believed, and was assured of
   salvation. The jailer thought Burke was playing the “pious
   dodge,” and only suspected him the more. When the case came to
   trial, however, he escaped conviction, and was released. For
   some months the ex-convict could find no one so to trust him as
   to give him steady work. He finally was given a position under
   the sheriff of the county, made the collector of the office, and
   until he died some time afterward, Burke never disappointed the
   confidence reposed in him.--H. C. MABIE, “Methods in
   Evangelism.”

    (3212)


   =Texts=--See FITNESS.


   =Thankfulness=--See UNSELFISHNESS.


                                THANKS

   A little scene of child-life has often seemed to me to contain
   the most touching lesson for men. A child knows when it receives
   a service from any one that it should say thank you. But, often,
   when a child renders us a service, we forget to thank it.
   After having waited in vain for the little word which should
   be pronounced, it then itself says, “Thank you,” and goes its
   way. The child has a feeling that something ought to happen
   and does not; then he takes charge of it himself.--CHARLES
   WAGNER, “The Gospel of Life.”

    (3213)


                         THANKS, THE SOLACE OF

   Even “hello girls” are tired sometimes, tho we think of them as
   part of the electrical apparatus. To-day Central was tired, her
   head ached, she had just succeeded, after repeated calls, in
   getting the number wanted by 349-M, and here they were, calling
   her up again! “Can’t that woman be quiet a minute?” soliloquized
   Central while she reiterated, “Number, please?” trying not to
   speak crossly. “Central,” said a pleasant voice, “I want to
   thank you for taking so much trouble to get me that last number.
   You are always very kind and obliging, and I do appreciate it.”
   The surprize was so great, so overwhelming, that Central could
   only murmur confusedly, “I--oh--yes, ma’am.” Nothing like this
   had ever happened before. Suddenly her headache was better,
   suddenly the day was brighter, suddenly, too, there came a lump
   in her throat, and she reached for her handkerchief. It was so
   good to be thanked. (Text.)

    (3214)


                             THANKSGIVING

    I thank Thee that I learn
    Not toil to spurn;
    With all beneath the sun
    It makes me one;
    For tears, whereby I gain
    Kinship with human pain;
    For Love, my comrade by the dusty ways,
    I give Thee praise.

    --EMILY READ JONES.

    (3215)


                           THANKSGIVING DAY

Robert Bridges is the author of these verses:

      We give Thee thanks, O Lord!
    Not for armed legions, marching in their might,
    Not for the glory of the well-earned fight
      Where brave men slay their brothers also brave;
    But for the millions of Thy sons who work--
    And do Thy task with joy--and never shirk,
      And deem the idle man a burdened slave;
        For these, O Lord, our thanks!

      We give Thee thanks, O Lord!
    Not for the palaces that wealth has grown,
    Where ease is worshiped--duty dimly known,
      And Pleasure leads her dance the flowery way;
    But for the quiet homes where love is queen
    And life is more than baubles, touched and seen,
      And old folks bless us, and dear children play;
        For these, O Lord, our thanks!

    (3216)


                           THEFT, A CHECK ON

   Persons who have been laying in their supply of coal for the
   winter months may have noticed that many of the lumps were
   coated with whitewash, and they doubtless wondered what was the
   reason for the unique decoration. Altho the white color may be
   considered to have improved the appearance of the ordinary black
   coal, that was not the object in view.

   For many years the railroads have been annoyed by coal thieves
   and thousands of tons of fuel were stolen annually. As the great
   carloads, containing forty tons each, are being carried from the
   mines, it is very easy for unscrupulous persons to remove a ton
   or two from a car without causing any noticeable change in the
   appearance of the load. Only when the car is again put on the
   scales is the loss detected, and then it is too late to trace
   the guilty parties.

   To check these depredations the railroad men have adopted the
   whitewash method of safeguarding their freight. After a car has
   been loaded a solution of lime and water is sprayed over the
   coal, and when the water has evaporated a white coating of lime
   remains on the top layer of lumps. Then, if any of the coal is
   removed, a black patch will be left upon the white surface to
   attract the attention of inspectors and station agents before
   the train has gone many miles from the scene of the theft, and
   thus the offender is easily traced.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (3217)


                           THEFTS ALL EQUAL

   I saw some men playing “banker and broker.” They had some
   filthy-looking cards, and some paltry pennies. They were a
   good-natured lot of fellows, and the game looked very simple.
   But I tell you that the great gamblers against whom the laws are
   made began their wrong-doing in just that way. And the playing
   for little stakes is worse. If a man takes from me a large sum
   of money and gives me nothing in return, I can make some excuse
   for him, because the temptation was great. But if a man takes
   from me a paltry dime, that is wanton. And the man who stole a
   million and the clerk who stole a quarter, and the shoe-shiner
   who stole a nickel and the man who stole a ride, and the woman
   who used a postage-stamp the second time are all thieves
   alike.--A. H. C. MORSE.

    (3218)


   =Theism=--See RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION DENIED.


                       THEOLOGY AS A DISCIPLINE

   Men that work by doctrines are men that think they have found
   out the universe; they have not only got it, but they have
   formulated it; they know all about the Infinite, they have
   sailed around eternity, they know all about the Eternal and
   the Everlasting God, and you will hear them discuss questions
   of theology: “No, God could not, consistent with consistency,
   do so-and-so.” They know all His difficulties; they know how
   He got round them. One might easily come to think that God was
   their next-door neighbor. Well, after all, whether it is true
   or false--their systematic views, their dogmas--the pedagogic
   views are very important to teach young and middle-aged and
   old to attempt, by philosophic reasoning, to reach into these
   unfathomable depths. They produce a power upon the brain of most
   transcendent importance; they, in their way, may not increase
   the sum of human knowledge, but they increase the capacity
   of the human brain for profound thought and investigation.
   (Text.)--HENRY WARD BEECHER.

    (3219)


                         THEOLOGY, SCHEMES OF

   When Kossuth visited America in 1851, he worked out here, with
   American statesmen, a constitution for Hungary, and had plates
   engraved for the printing of treasury notes, and a system of
   money. When Kossuth went down to the steamer to sail home,
   he had an ideal and new republic of Hungary, and oh, wonder
   of wonders! he carried it in a handbag! Just as I have seen
   theological professors carry what they thought was a whole
   church, in a book of notes under the arm. Unfortunately, Kossuth
   never produced the written constitution in the character of
   twenty millions. And unfortunately, many teachers, wise in their
   polity, and sound in their theology, think like God and act like
   the devil.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (3220)


                     THEOLOGY SHAPED BY EXPERIENCE

The influence on John Wesley’s theology of an escape as a child from a
burning dwelling is thus described by Rev. W. H. Fitchett:

   His theology translated itself into the terms of that night
   scene. The burning house was the symbol of a perishing world.
   Each human soul, in Wesley’s thought, was represented by that
   fire-girt child, with the flames of sin, and of that divine
   and eternal anger which unrepenting sin kindles, closing round
   it. He who had been plucked from the burning house at midnight
   must pluck men from the flames of a more dreadful fire. That
   remembered peril colored Wesley’s imagination to his dying
   day.--“Wesley and His Century.”

    (3221)


   =Theory, Erroneous=--See VITALITY LOW.


                        THEORY VERSUS PRACTISE

   A fellow has the cramp-colic and is tied up in a double
   bow-knot. By and by an old, dignified doctor comes in with a can
   of mustard in one hand, and a dissertation on mustard in the
   other. He walks up to the bed, and says, “My friend, be quiet
   about an hour and a half, and let me read you a dissertation on
   mustard; this mustard grew in the State of Connecticut; it was
   planted about the first of June and cultivated like potatoes,
   and vegetables of a like character.”

   About that time another paroxysm hit the fellow, and he said,
   “Good Lord, doctor; I don’t care how it grew or where; spread
   some on a rag and put it on me.”--“Popular Lectures of Sam P.
   Jones.”

    (3222)

   See KNOWING AND DOING.


                                THINGS

   Among the causes of worry let us mention an over-emphasis of
   things, an undue estimate of wealth, equipage and luxury.
   When men are once bitten with the desire for abundance, worry
   inevitably follows. It is a truism that the most beautiful
   things are the simplest things. Witness a Doric column. One
   substance, marble, and a fluted line, giving form--no more. But,
   oh, how beautiful! The lily has two colors, white with a tiny
   stamen of gold, and then for contrast a black mud-puddle in
   which it grows. The two lovers have their happiest days in the
   little cottage, with a tiny vine over the front window, three
   or four great authors, one big chair before the open fire, two
   or three old familiar songs, a few friends--heaven lies round
   about this little house. Twenty years pass by. The man and woman
   are bitten now with the love of many things. Forgetting the few
   books that once he digested, the man buys 5,000 volumes--many
   people are under the delusion that they have read a book because
   they have bought it. Now also the man and woman buy twenty or
   thirty chairs, and one sits in one chair in one room, and the
   other in another chair in another room. There used to be one
   chair. They begin to collect things for things’ sake; curios and
   clothes and rare editions, until the house becomes a museum, and
   the palace is as cold as a storage-plant, where love chilled
   to death twenty years ago. And the man and woman are mere
   care-takers of the things they have collected, mere drudges,
   hirelings; in fact, this man and his wife are the only servants
   in the house that work for nothing.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (3223)


                           THINGS, NOT BOOKS

   The tragedy of the race was when men, who had lived next to
   things, began to fancy that if all that men knew could be
   gathered into contrivances called books, and the children shut
   in a building with these books, they could learn all about the
   world on which gravity chains us, without the trouble of ever
   looking at the things themselves.

   When I was a little boy I was once studying in geography the
   animals of the Rocky Mountains. Just then a boy rushed in
   breathless, and said that there were “four men outside with
   three big bears.” The teacher shut the door and cracked me
   on the head for looking out over the high window-sill. And
   yet these men had brought to our door the very real things
   concerning which we were studying. But school was about book
   bears, not real bears.

   Once in the University of Cincinnati I saw a young woman
   assiduously studying an oyster. Perplexed, she looked up and
   asked the professor a question about the thing which she was
   studying. The professor walked to her table, looked carefully
   at the oyster, and answered her. Why didn’t she ask the oyster?
   Even the professor had to do so. The oyster was the court of
   last resort, and it was in session before her; but the old
   view-point had so walled in her vision that she could not even
   see the decision before her eyes.

   To read things out of books requires a former experience of
   things. Let us go back to things.--WILLIAM I. CRANE,
   “Journal of the National Education Association,” 1905.

    (3224)


   =Things versus Men=--See FORGIVENESS.


   =Thinkers=--See CHARACTER.


                           THINKING DEFINED

   Thinking is specific, not a machine-like, ready-made apparatus
   to be turned indifferently and at will upon all subjects, as a
   lantern may throw its light as it happens upon horses, streets,
   gardens, trees or river. Thinking is specific in that different
   things suggest their own appropriate meanings, tell their own
   unique stories and in that they do this in very different ways
   with different persons. As the growth of the body is through
   the assimilation of food, so the growth of mind is through the
   logical organization of subject-matter. Thinking is not like a
   sausage machine which reduces all materials indifferently to
   one marketable commodity, but is a power of following up and
   linking together the specific suggestions that specific things
   arouse. Accordingly, any subject, from Greek to cooking, and
   from drawing to mathematics, is intellectual, if intellectual at
   all, not in its fixt inner structure, but in its function--in
   its power to start and direct significant inquiry and
   reflection.--JOHN DEWEY, “How we Think.”

    (3225)


                   THINKING EMPIRICAL OR SCIENTIFIC

   Apart from the development of scientific method, inferences
   depend upon habits that have been built up under the influence
   of a number of particular experiences not themselves arranged
   for logical purposes. A says, “It will probably rain to-morrow.”
   B asks, “Why do you think so?” and A replies, “Because the sky
   was lowering at sunset.” When B asks, “What has that to do
   with it?” A responds, “I do not know, but it generally does
   rain after such a sunset.” He does not perceive any connection
   between the appearance of the sky and coming rain; he is not
   aware of any continuity in the facts themselves--any law or
   principle, as we usually say. He simply, from frequently
   recurring conjunctions of the events, has associated them so
   that when he sees one he thinks of the other. One suggests the
   other, or is associated with it. A man may believe it will rain
   to-morrow because he has consulted the barometer; but if he
   has no conception how the height of the mercury column (or the
   position of an index moved by its rise and fall) is connected
   with variations of atmospheric pressure, and how these in turn
   are connected with the amount of moisture in the air, his belief
   in the likelihood of rain is purely empirical. When men lived in
   the open and got their living by hunting, fishing, or pasturing
   flocks, the detection of the signs and indications of weather
   changes was a matter of great importance. A body of proverbs and
   maxims, forming an extensive section of traditionary folklore,
   was developed. But as long as there was no understanding why or
   how certain events were signs, as long as foresight and weather
   shrewdness rested simply upon repeated conjunction among facts,
   beliefs about the weather were thoroughly empirical.--JOHN
   DEWEY, “How we Think.”

    (3226)

       *       *       *       *       *

   While many empirical conclusions are, roughly speaking, correct;
   while they are exact enough to be of great help in practical
   life; while the presages of a weatherwise sailor or hunter may
   be more accurate, within a certain restricted range, than those
   of a scientist who relies wholly upon scientific observations
   and tests; while, indeed, empirical observations and records
   furnish the raw or crude material of scientific knowledge, yet
   the empirical method affords no way of discriminating between
   right and wrong conclusions. Hence it is responsible for a
   multitude of false beliefs. The technical designation for
   one of the commonest fallacies is _post hoc, ergo propter
   hoc_; the belief that because one thing comes after another,
   it comes because of the other. Now this fallacy of method is
   the animating principle of empirical conclusions, even when
   correct--the correctness being almost as much a matter of
   good luck as of method. That potatoes should be planted only
   during the crescent moon, that near the sea people are born
   at high-tide and die at low-tide, that a comet is an omen of
   danger, that bad luck follows the cracking of a mirror, that
   a patent medicine cures a disease--these and a thousand like
   notions are asseverated on the basis of empirical coincidence
   and conjunction. Moreover, habits of expectation and belief
   are formed otherwise than by a number of repeated similar
   cases.--JOHN DEWEY, “How We Think.”

    (3227)


                       THINKING, HOW COORDINATED

   The sight of a baby often calls out the question: “What do you
   suppose he is thinking about?” By the nature of the case, the
   question is unanswerable in detail; but, also by the nature of
   the case, we may be sure about a baby’s chief interest. His
   primary problem is mastery of his body as a tool of securing
   comfortable and effective adjustments to his surroundings,
   physical and social. The child has to learn to do almost
   everything: to see, to hear, to reach, to handle, to balance
   the body, to creep, to walk and so on. Even if it be true that
   human beings have even more instinctive reactions than lower
   animals, it is also true that instinctive tendencies are much
   less perfect in men, and that most of them are of little use
   till they are intelligently combined and directed. A little
   chick just out of the shell will after a few trials peck and
   grasp grains of food with its beak as well as at any later
   time. This involves a complicated coordination of the eye and
   the head. An infant does not even begin to reach definitely for
   things that the eye sees till he is several months old, and even
   then several weeks’ practise is required before he learns the
   adjustment so as neither to overreach nor to underreach.

   It may not be literally true that the child will grasp for the
   moon, but it is true that he needs much practise before he can
   tell whether an object is within reach or not. The arm is thrust
   out instinctively in response to a stimulus from the eye and
   this tendency is the origin of the ability to reach and grasp
   exactly and quickly; but nevertheless final mastery requires
   observing and selecting the successful movements and arranging
   them in view of an end. These operations of conscious selection
   and arrangement constitute thinking, tho of a rudimentary
   type.--JOHN DEWEY, “How to Think.”

    (3228)


                      THIRTEEN SUPERSTITION, THE

   “Have a thirteenth floor in this building?” queries a part owner
   of one of the famous office buildings in New York. “Never! The
   thirteenth floor is sometimes difficult to rent; tenants would
   prefer to go higher or lower.

   “The thirteen hoodoo affects more otherwise sane men than is
   acknowledged. Many of the most famous business buildings in the
   country have no thirteenth floor--the fourteenth story follows
   the twelfth. By following this plan, we take the least risk.
   As the names of tenants are arranged alphabetically on the
   directory, the omission is seldom noticed.”--_System._

    (3229)


   =Thorn, Value of the=--See CROSS, GLORIOUS.


                             THOROUGHNESS

   A prosperous Brooklyn manufacturer tells how a single watchword
   made him wealthy, besides helping him in his character. When
   a young man he started for Australia in a sailing vessel,
   intending to go into business there; but he became very weary
   of the slow and stormy voyage and half determined to leave the
   ship at a South American port and return home. He asked advice
   from an old man, who was one of his fellow passengers. The
   counsel he got was, “If you undertake to do a thing, do it.”
   He took the advice, and the motto also. In Australia he soon
   acquired twenty-five thousand dollars, which he brought back
   to this country and greatly increased by fidelity to the same
   ever-present watchword.

    (3230)

       *       *       *       *       *

   If ever a literary success was earned by hard work, General
   Wallace earned it with “Ben Hur.” He first started the book
   as a novelette, which he intended to offer to _Harper’s
   Magazine_; but the story expanded until it far outgrew the
   original design, and occupied its author for seven years. Full
   as it is with the most graphic pictures of Palestine, it is
   difficult to realize that General Wallace had never been in
   that country when he wrote the novel. The general was recently
   asked how he accomplished such wonderful results, and replied as
   follows:

   “I doubt if any novel has ever had more careful studies for
   its background and life than those made for ‘Ben Hur.’ I knew
   that the novel would be criticized by men who had devoted their
   lives to Biblical lore, and I studied Palestine through maps
   and books. I read everything in the way of travel, scientific
   investigation, and geography. I had scores of maps and worked
   with them about me. My best guide was a relief map of Palestine
   made in Germany. This was hung on my wall, and by means of it I
   took my characters through the passes of the mountains and up
   and down the hills, measuring their daily travel by the scale of
   miles. I also made studies of the bird and animal life of the
   time and place.” (Text.)

    (3231)


                        THOROUGHNESS IMPOSSIBLE

   Thoroughness is all right to talk about, but there is nothing
   that has been thoroughly done in this world, and it will be a
   good many years before anything will be thoroughly done. Talk
   about absolute thoroughness! It is nonsense! We may attain unto
   it as we attain unto perfection, but we might as well attempt to
   shoot the moon as to reach thoroughness or perfection in this
   world. Is there a single college graduate who knows thoroughly
   anything that he had studied in his college course? Take Latin,
   which the average college student studies seven solid years.
   What does he know when he gets through? Can he talk it? Can he
   even read an author which he has never before seen, with any
   degree of fluency and acceptability? Then take mathematics.
   How many students are thorough in it? We venture that the
   roll-call of college graduates who could be counted thorough in
   mathematics would be called in an extremely short space of time.
   Our ideals should be high. This is all right. We should aim at
   never doing anything in a half-way manner. But the tasks half
   done, the studies half learned, the books half read, and the
   work half accomplished constitute by far the largest portion of
   our lives.--_School Journal._

    (3232)


                      THOROUGHNESS IN PREPARATION

One of the remarkable characteristics displayed by Charles E. Hughes
in the conduct of his important lawsuits conducted against great
corporations on behalf of the people was his complete mastery of the
facts entering into the cases. In regard to this characteristic, the
following is illuminating as showing his painstaking preparation for
his cases:

   His habit of thorough preparation made him one of the most
   formidable trial lawyers in New York. When he went into court,
   he could usually defeat his adversary not only on the point
   directly at issue, but upon dozens of others that might come
   up correlatively. In his search for information he never
   limited his investigations to law-books. He was once called
   upon to defend a patent held by a company manufacturing a
   mechanical piano-player. He mastered all the law points
   involved, and then began to work on the mechanism itself.
   He had an instrument moved up to his house, and spent many
   hours playing upon it, taking it apart, and becoming entirely
   familiar with its mechanical details. When Mr. Hughes appeared
   in court, he confounded the experts by his familiarity with the
   technicalities involved and easily won his case.

    (3233)


                         THOROUGHNESS, LACK OF

   There are jumping men who always hit the top bar with their
   heels and never quite clear it. There are women whose stitches
   always come out, and the buttons they sew on fly off on the
   mildest provocation. And there are other women who will use
   the same needle and thread, and you may tug away at their work
   on your coat or your waistcoat, and you can’t start a button
   in a generation! There are poets who never get beyond the
   first verse; orators who forget the next sentence, and sit
   down; gold-diggers who buy a pickax and stop there. There are
   painters whose studios are full of unpainted pictures. And
   if sluggards ever took good advice, what long processions we
   should constantly meet, slowly traveling on their way to the
   ant.--JAMES T. FIELDS.

    (3234)


   =Thought Before Thing=--See UTILITY AS THEISTIC EVIDENCE.


   =Thought, Progress of=--See PROGRESS UNFINISHED.


   =Thoughts, Beautiful=--See LITERATURE AS AN INSPIRATION.


   =Thoughts from the Garden=--See UPWARD LOOK.


   =Thrashing, the Effect of a Sound=--See SHAKING-UP.


   =Threat Ignored=--See LOYALTY.


   =Thrift=--See WORTH, ESTIMATING.


   =Tides, Spiritual=--See FLOOD TIDE, SPIRITUAL.


   =Ties=--See CHRISTIAN UNITY.


                                 TIME

   In a recent address at Princeton University Gen. Horace Porter,
   ex-Ambassador to France, told of a chaplain at West Point who,
   on one occasion, facing his audience and about to begin his
   sermon, took out his watch and laying it down deliberately
   before him as a monitor, said: “In contemplating the things of
   eternity, we must ever be mindful of time”; then proceeded with
   his discourse.

There is a worldliness that tones and balances an other-worldliness.

    (3235)

   See LOVE AND TIME; MAN, SLOW DEVELOPMENT OF.


                            TIME A MONITOR

Mary Lowe Dickinson tells what we would do if we had only a day to live.

    We should fill the hours with the sweetest things,
      If we had but a day;
    We should drink alone at the purest springs
      In our upward way;
    We should love with a lifetime’s love in an hour,
      If our hours were few;
    We should rest, not for dreams, but for fresher power
      To be and to do.

    We should waste no moments in weak regret
      If the day were but one;
    If what we remember and what we forget
      Went out with the sun,
    We should from our clamorous selves set free
      To work or to pray,
    And to be what our Father would have us be,
      If we had but a day.

    (3236)


                          TIME BRINGS FORTUNE

   Ten years ago Henry Brink, of Melrose, purchased a few thousand
   shares of stock in an Arizona gold-mine. In return for several
   hundred dollars he received a great bundle of beautiful green
   certificates handsomely engraved.

   After waiting in vain for the mine to become productive, and
   finally deciding that as an investor he was as green as his
   certificates, Brink smiled over his loss and papered his room
   with the souvenirs of his folly. As a mural decoration the stock
   was worth par.

   Now he has been informed that porcelain clay of rare quality has
   been discovered on the mine site and that his certificates in
   consequence were worth a fortune.--Boston _Journal_.

    (3237)


                           TIME, CHANGES OF

The way in which the passage of time alters our views and feelings is
exprest in the following verses by Theodosia Garrison:

    When I think sometimes of old griefs I had,
      Of sorrows that once seemed too harsh to bear,
    And youth’s resolve to never more be glad,
      I laugh--and do not care.

    When I think sometimes of the joy I knew,
      The gay, glad laughter ere my heart was wise,
    The trivial happiness that seemed so true,
      The tears are in my eyes.

    Time--Time the cynic--how he mocks us all!
      And yet to-day I can but think him right.
    Ah, heart, the old joy is so tragical
      And the old grief so light.

    --_The Reader Magazine._

    (3238)

   See MUTATION.


                              TIME ENOUGH

   Joaquin Miller, “The Poet of the Sierras,” recently visited a
   friend in Boston whose literary taste runs largely to Emerson,
   Browning and Maeterlinck. This friend, says _Lippincott’s
   Magazine_, found the venerable poet in the library one
   afternoon deeply absorbed in a book.

   “What are you reading?” asked the Bostonian.

   “A novel by Bret Harte,” replied the poet.

   The Hubbite sniffed. “I can not see,” said he, “how an immortal
   being can waste his time with such stuff.”

   “Are you quite sure,” asked Miller, “that I am an immortal
   being?”

   “Why, of course you are,” was the unwary reply.

   “In that case,” responded the Californian grimly, “I don’t see
   why I should be so very economical of my time.”

    (3239)


                            TIME, IMPROVING

   John Wesley’s toils as a preacher were interspaced with frequent
   islets of leisure. This man, who seemed to live in crowds,
   had yet in his life wide spaces of solitude. He preached to
   his five-o’clock-in-the-morning congregation, then mounted
   his horse, or stepped into his chaise, and rode or drove off
   to the next gathering. Betwixt the two crowds he had hours of
   solitude--to think, to read, to plan. He was the master, it may
   be added, of the perilous art of reading on horseback. His work
   itself was a physical tonic.--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley
   and His Century.”

    (3240)


                       TIME-KEEPING WITH FLOWERS

   A curiosity among timepieces is a clock of flowers. It is well
   known that every blossom has its precise hour for opening its
   petals and for closing them. Some open at sunrise and close at
   sunset; but as a matter of fact, there is not an hour of the day
   nor of the night even but some flower begins or ends its period.
   In Pliny’s time forty-six such flowers were known. The number
   since then has very largely increased. From these a floral
   timepiece has been made.

Man’s life and deeds, like these flowers, ought to keep God’s time.

    (3241)


   =Time, Killing=--See IDLENESS.


                             TIME PRECIOUS

   Mere amusement, a pleasing invention to kill time, is not a
   high aim for a novel. Killing time is the worst kind of murder.
   Remember while we are killing it, it is surely killing us. We
   need no books to help us. Rather give us books that will enable
   us to make time live, so that every moment in life will bear
   its own blossom. Then will we value each hour as the miser does
   his golden disks, letting each slip through his fingers slowly
   and longingly, for its power and worth is known to him so well.
   Naturalism will never help us. Dredging stagnant ponds does not
   purify them. It merely sets the filth in circulation.--_Book
   Chat._

    (3242)

   See NOVELS, GOOD AND BAD.


   =Time, Redeeming=--See KNOWLEDGE, THIRST FOR; PAINSTAKING.


                              TIME SAVERS

   Harry Harm, the son of a Columbia grocer, has found a practical
   use for a lot of carrier-pigeons. It used to take him half a
   day to gather orders, half a day to fill them, and half a day
   to deliver; but now, thanks to the pigeons, the work is done in
   one day. When Mr. Harm starts he takes a crate of pigeons along
   in his wagon, and after he secures a few orders he takes the
   duplicate order-slips, which are of thin paper, puts them in a
   tiny roll on a pigeon’s leg, and the bird is liberated. It at
   once flies to its loft at the store, where the clerks relieve it
   of its orders. This plan is followed until the man covers his
   entire route, and when he returns to the store the clerks have
   the goods ready for delivery.--Philadelphia _Press_.

    (3243)


                           TIME, THE PRESENT

    When I have time, so many things I’ll do
      To make life happier and more fair
      For those whose lives are crowded full with care;
      I’ll help to lift them up from their despair--
                When I have time.

    When I have time, the friend I love so well
      Shall know no more these weary toiling days;
      I’ll lead her feet in pleasant paths always,
      And cheer her heart with sweetest words of praise--
                When I have time.

    When you have time, the friend you loved so dear
      May be beyond the reach of your intent;
      May never know that you so kindly meant
      To fill her life with ever sweet content--
                When you had time.

    Now is the time. Ah, friend, no longer wait
      To scatter loving smiles and words of cheer
      To those around whose lives are now so drear;
      They may not need you in the coming year--
                Now is the time. (Text.)

    (3244)


   =Time too Short=--See FAME AND TIME.


                           TIMELINESS OF GOD

    His wisdom is sublime;
      His heart supremely kind;
    God never is before His time
      And never is behind. (Text.)

    (3245)


                               TIMIDITY

May T. McKean, in _Zion’s Advocate_, reports an acquaintance as
saying to her:

   I wish I could say the thoughts that come to me, but I could no
   more speak in a meeting than I could fly. I could not preside
   at even the smallest meeting. Indeed, I can scarcely make a
   motion in our own little circle. The sound of my own voice
   frightens me; it sounds queer and hollow and far off, and I
   forget everything I had in mind before. But, honestly, I believe
   I could be a more useful woman in Christ’s kingdom if I were not
   so timid. I guess I did not begin right. I was always afraid
   I would not say or do the right thing, and now I can not do
   anything. (Text.)

    (3246)

       *       *       *       *       *

   A master in Italian music was Arcangelo Corelli. He was once
   performing with Handel, and on another occasion with Scarlatti,
   in the presence of the King in Naples, when his cunning failed
   him and he made certain faults in execution which so chagrined
   the artist that he died broken-hearted from brooding over his
   mistakes.

    (3247)

   See GENIUS DISCOUNTED; SELF-CONSCIOUSNESS; TACT.


   =Tipping=--See RIDICULE, APT.


   =Tithes=--See GIVING, FAITHFUL.


   =Titles=--See LABELS, MISLEADING.


   =Toast, Witty=--See WASHINGTON, GEORGE.


                             TOBACCO HABIT

   Rev. W. F. Crafts is authority for the statement that
   four-fifths of the men who now fill positions of large
   responsibility in our land did not use tobacco before they
   were sixteen years of age, and even those who did, with three
   exceptions, mention the fact with regret.

    (3248)


                                TO-DAY

The following is from _The British Weekly_:

    Just this day in all I do
      To be true;
    Little loaf takes little leaven;
    Duty for this day, not seven,
    That is all of earth and heaven,
      If we knew.

    Oh, how needlessly we gaze
      Down the days,
    Troubled for next week, next year,
    Overlooking now and here.
    “Heart, the only sure is near,”
      Wisdom says.

    Step by step, and day by day,
      All the way,
    So the pilgrim’s soul wins through,
    Finds each morn the strength to do
    All God asks for me or you--
      This obey. (Text.)

    (3249)


                             TOIL ACCEPTED

An unidentified writer pens this brave poem:

    I ask not
      When shall the day be done and rest come on;
    I pray not
      That soon from me the “curse of toil” be gone;
    I seek not
      A sluggard’s couch with drowsy curtains drawn.
    But give me
      Time to fight the battle out as best I may;
    And give me
      Strength and place to labor still at evening’s gray;
    Then let me
      Rest as one who toiled a-field through all the day.

    (3250)


                          TOIL AND PROVIDENCE

God helps those who help themselves.

   It is common to attribute the great discoveries in science and
   industry to accident or sudden inspiration. But however suddenly
   discoveries are made, in some sense they are usually a result of
   long and patient toil and experimentation. Daguerre worked for
   many years trying to make the light print a likeness on glass or
   metal before an accidental hint gave him the clue.

    (3251)


   =Toil and Study=--See MISSIONARY, A, IN THE MAKING.


                           TOKEN, VALUE OF A

The following incident appeared in a New York daily:

   Bent with age but bright-eyed and alert, James Swift,
   eighty-four years old, was committed at his own request to the
   almshouse yesterday by Magistrate Krotel, sitting in Yorkville
   Court.

   “I’m goin’ to start for California just as soon as I come out
   of the almshouse,” Swift told the magistrate. The old man
   displayed a silver watch with copper chain, which, he said, was
   a perpetual pass over the Union Pacific Railroad. It had been
   given him as a token that he was one of the men engaged in the
   construction of the road, the presentation being made on the
   occasion of the driving of the last spike in May, 1866. All he
   had to do, he said, when he wanted to ride over the road was to
   show the timepiece to the conductor.

    (3252)


                       TO-MORROW, UNCERTAINTY OF

    To-morrow? Shall the fleeting years
      Abide our questioning? They go
    All heedless of our hopes and fears.
      To-morrow? ’Tis not ours to know
        That we again shall see the flowers.
      To-morrow is the gods’--but, oh,
          To-day is ours! (Text.)

    --CHARLES EDMUND MERRILL, JR., _Scribner’s Magazine_.

    (3253)


                          TONGUE, A SWEARING

   A long, long time ago, in the summer-time, a man was stung in
   the face by a bee. This made him mad, and he swore and swore
   and then swore again. The swear was so hot that his kettle of
   time boiled over and he wasted half an hour swearing at the
   bee. A friend who was sorry to hear him swear, said: “Jim, I am
   sorry for you. I think that bee might have stung you in a better
   place.” Again the kettle boiled over. “Where might it have stung
   me?” asked the swearer. “Why, it would have been better for you
   if it had stung you on the tip of your tongue.” Read the third
   chapter of James and then think of the need of a bee on the tip
   of the tongue--J. M. FARRAR.

    (3254)


                              TONGUE, THE

Would not the world be benefited by the surgery suggested in the
following anecdote:

   An old lady of his flock once called upon Dr. John Gill, a
   London preacher, with a grievance. The doctor’s neckbands were
   too long for her ideas of ministerial humility, and after a
   long harangue on the sin of pride, she intimated that she had
   brought a pair of scissors with her, and would be pleased if her
   dear pastor would permit her to cut them down to her notions of
   propriety.

   The doctor not only listened patiently, but handed over the
   offending white bands to be operated upon. When she had cut them
   to her satisfaction and returned the bits, it was the doctor’s
   turn. “Now,” said he, “you must do me a good turn also.” “Yes,
   that I will, doctor. What can it be?” “Well, you have something
   about you which is a deal too long and which causes me no end
   of trouble, and I should like to see it shorter.” “Indeed, dear
   sir, I will not hesitate. What is it? Here are the scissors; use
   them as you please.” “Come then,” said the sturdy divine; “good
   sister, put out your tongue.” (Text.)--_Tit-Bits._

    (3255)

       *       *       *       *       *

Sarcasm, ridicule, and all forms of bitter speech may be compared to
the weapon described below:

   The falarica, an ancient weapon, was a sort of javelin,
   consisting of a shaft of wood, with a long point of iron. This
   point was three feet long. Near the end were wound round the
   wooden shaft long bands of tow saturated with pitch and other
   combustibles, and this inflammable band was set on fire just
   before the javelin was thrown. As the missile flew the wind
   fanned the flames, and striking the shield of the soldier
   opposing it, it could not be pulled out and the shield was
   destroyed. (Text.)

    (3256)

       *       *       *       *       *

The words of James (3:8) about the “deadly poison” of the tongue when
“set on fire of hell” are called to mind by the following caution:

    You may keep your feet from slipping,
    And your hands from evil deeds,
    But to guard your tongue from tripping,
    What unceasing care it needs!
    Be you old or be you young,
      Oh, beware,
      Take good care,
    Of the tittle-tattle, tell-tale tongue!

    (3257)


                                 TOOLS

Dr. David Gregg says:

   Tool-makers are the powers in this world. The Jewish legend
   sets this into the light. When Solomon completed his great
   temple he prepared a luxurious feast to which he invited the
   artificers who had been employed in its construction. But in
   unveiling the throne, it was discovered that a stalwart smith,
   with his sledge-hammer, had usurped the place of honor at the
   king’s right hand. Whereupon the people made an outcry, and
   the guards rushed in to cut down the intruder. “Hold, let him
   speak,” commanded Solomon, “and explain if he can his great
   presumption.” “O King,” answered the smith, “thou hast invited
   to the banquet all the craftsmen but me. Yet how could these
   builders have reared the temple without the tools which I
   furnished?” “True,” exclaimed the king; “the seat of honor is
   his by right, and he shall hold it; for back of all great and
   effective work are tools.” What is said of the trades may be
   said of the professions. The best professional work is done,
   other things being equal, by those who command the best tools.

    (3258)

   See GENIUS VERSUS TOOLS.


   =Tools and Man=--See MAN A CREATOR.


                             TOOLS, MORAL

   What matter a few troubles and pains now, if it is only the work
   of the chisel and hammer cutting away the hindering crust, to
   reveal the diamond?--J. R. MILLER.

    (3259)


   =Topics Tabooed=--See TABOOED TOPICS IN THE EAST.


                      TOTAL ABSTAINERS IN DEMAND

   The other day I picked up a newspaper and, glancing over the
   advertisements for help, read as follows:

   “Wanted--A bartender. Must be a total abstainer. Apply,” etc.

   Is not that a curious advertisement? What should we think of
   such an advertisement in another line of business? How would an
   advertisement like this look?

   “Wanted--A barber who has never had his hair cut. Apply at the
   barbershop on the corner.”

   Or this?

   “Wanted--A salesman in a shoe-store. He must go barefooted while
   on duty. Apply at Bank’s shoe-store.”

   What other business finds it necessary or desirable to advertise
   for help pledged to make no use of the goods sold? Can it
   be that the liquor traffic finds it has wrought so great
   demoralization among its followers that it is forced to draw
   upon temperance or total abstinence “fanatics” in order to
   continue its business?--_California Voice._

    (3260)

   See ABSTAINERS LIVE LONG.


   =Total Abstinence=--See PERSONAL INFLUENCE.


                      TOTAL ABSTINENCE, VALUE OF

Here is testimony from the medical examiners of prominent life
insurance companies as to the value of abstinence from alcohol:

   (1) I note that you ask whether or not we believe, other things
   being equal, that the use of alcoholic drinks is a personal
   handicap and increases the actuarial risk. In reply to this
   question we must certainly answer in the affirmative. There have
   been numerous articles written and numerous statistics compiled
   on the effect of total abstinence, and they show without
   question that the mortality experienced among total abstainers
   has been decidedly less than that experienced among moderate
   drinkers.

   (2) This company prefers total abstainers for insurance risks.
   This is from a selfish standpoint, as we are forced to believe
   they are better risks for the company. We are imprest by the
   large number of applicants living in the States of Alabama and
   Georgia who say they drank periodically or regularly before
   prohibition went into effect, but do not drink anything now. If
   prohibition in Alabama and Georgia and the “dry” counties of
   Indiana has done nothing else, it has made a difference in the
   answers given by applicants to this company.

   (3) We thoroughly agree with all authorities that the moderate
   use of alcohol tends to shorten life and increases the hazard
   incident to life insurance.--_Prohibition Year Book._

    (3261)

   See ABSTAINERS LIVE LONG.


   =Touch=--See SYMPATHY.


                            TOUCH, POWER OF

   There is a legend, setting forth the power of touch, caught in
   the amber of old Greek pages. From their palace on Olympus,
   the gods looked down on barren fields. At last they sent Ceres
   down, clothing her with the power of touch. She touched the
   sand plain and it became a clover-field. She touched the bog
   and it became the spring that widened into a river. She touched
   the fallen log and it was clothed with moss and snow-drops.
   She touched a thorn-bush and it became an olive, and the brier
   ripened figs. Soon the gods, looking down, beheld hillsides
   soft with flush of grass and clustered food. Oh, wondrous power
   of the divine touch, setting forth the power of Christ and His
   disciples upon the souls of men. Jesus touched a prodigal, and
   he became a beautiful son; touched the Magdalen and she became
   a sweet saint and the angel of purity; touched the murderer and
   he became a hero, and dying, Jesus communicated the power of
   touch to His disciples. Peter and John touched three thousand
   enemies, and they became a church; touched slaves, gladiators,
   Roman soldiers, and they became disciples of righteousness
   and peace. And so the evangel of love spread, like a blest
   contagion.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (3262)


                          TOUCHINESS, FOOLISH

   Could any touchiness exceed that of Robert Duke of Normandy?
   According to Holinshed, the king, in trying on a new cloak,
   with a hood, and finding it too tight for him, directed that
   the garment should be taken to his brother (the duke), who was
   a smaller man. A slight rent, however, had been made in the
   garment, and the duke perceiving it, and hearing that the cloak
   had been tried on by the king, indignantly exclaimed, “Now I
   perceive I have lived too long, since my brother clothes me like
   an almsman in his cast-rent garments,” and refusing all food,
   starved himself to death.--London _Evening Standard_.

    (3263)


                               TOUGHNESS

The path of safety in the moral as in the physical realm is not so much
the avoidance of risks as the training of the faculties to resist.

   It is a question well worth considering what it is that makes
   the savage so hardy. He lives nearer to nature than does the
   civilized man, and that is the reason he is hardier, tougher,
   and more enduring. Civilized men have departed far from the
   natural order of life, and they are suffering the penalty--a
   shortened and a feeble life.

   Unfortunately, the majority of civilized human beings subject
   themselves to a hothouse regimen, apparently thinking that the
   most important thing in winter is to keep away the cold. A
   cold day is a dangerous thing to one who is not ready for it.
   January and February are deadly months to those who are not
   prepared for them. During these months many people are carried
   off by pneumonia. After people have reached the age of forty or
   fifty years, they are particularly susceptible to this disease,
   because of the lowered power of resistance. Toughness is the
   result of the body’s power of resistance. (Text.)--Dr. J. H.
   KELLOGG, _Good Health_.

    (3264)


   =Trades Exempt from Disease=--See DISEASE, EXEMPTION FROM.


                               TRADITION

Custom makes laws harder to break than those of the land in which we
may happen to live. It frequently happens that these laws are founded
on experience, on mature judgment, on good sense, but occasionally
they are founded on old superstitions which in other forms have passed
away. Among the unfortunate customs that still linger is the habit of
crippling the left hand.

   If a child in shaking hands offers the left, the horrified
   mother or nurse at once corrects the blunder and apologizes for
   it to the bystanders. She does not know why she does this beyond
   the fact that “it is the custom”; she does not know that in
   medieval times the right hand was the “dextrous” hand, the hand
   of good faith, while the left was the “sinister” hand, the hand
   of bad faith. We have crystallized these beliefs in our present
   interpretation of these words; if we are “dextrous” we are doing
   things in a right-handed way, while the mildest meaning given to
   “sinister” is “unfortunate or awkward.” So the child is crippled
   in its left hand to conform to a custom which has been discarded
   and forgotten. (Text.)--_The Medical Times._

    (3265)

   See CUSTOM.


                         TRADITION, UNMEANING

   One of the oldest customs in the navy and one that is often
   puzzling to the landsman is that of “saluting the quarter-deck.”
   Many have the hazy idea that the national colors are its object
   and that it is merely a naval fad. While to a certain extent
   it is a fad, it is one of hoary antiquity, being a survival of
   the days when a crucifix was placed on the stern of a ship and
   was always saluted as a matter of course. When the crucifix was
   taken away the old feeling still remained, and men continued
   to salute the place where it had been. The younger generation
   imitated their elders, and the salute became a habit and
   continues until this day, (Text.)

    (3266)


                               TRAINING

Commander Robert E. Peary was asked what training was necessary for
arctic exploration work. This was his reply:

   One can train for arctic exploration as one would train for a
   prize-fight. The training consists of good habits, with sound,
   healthy body as a basis to work on. One must be sound of wind
   and limb, to use the horseman’s phrase, and he must not be a
   quitter. That’s the kind of training that finds the pole. (Text.)

    (3267)

       *       *       *       *       *

There is little room, or only inferior positions in the world for men
who are not trained, at least in some respects.

   Look at the well-trained blacksmith; he goes across the shop,
   picks up the horse’s foot, takes a squint, returns to his anvil,
   forges the shoe, and it exactly fits the foot. Contrast him with
   the bungler who looks at the foot, then forges a shoe, then fits
   the foot to it, often to the ruin of a fine horse. Now, the
   fault lies in ever allowing himself to put a shoe on that is
   not in proper shape for the foot; he should determine to make
   the shoe fit the foot in place of the foot fitting the shoe,
   and he should follow it up until the object is accomplished.
   A very good way to discipline the mechanical eye is to first
   measure an inch with the eye, and then prove it with the rule,
   then measure a half inch, then an eighth, and so on, and you
   will soon be able to discover at a glance the difference between
   a twelfth and a sixteenth of an inch; then go to three inches,
   six, twelve, and so on. Some call this guessing; there is no
   guesswork about it. It is measuring with the eye and the mind.
   If you can not see things mechanically, do not blame the eye
   for it; it is no more to blame than the mouth is because we
   can not read, or the fingers because we can not write. Every
   occupation in life requires a mechanically-trained eye, and we
   should realize more than we do the great importance of properly
   training that organ.--_Mining and Scientific Press._

    (3268)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Training counts, culture adds strength. Sixty per cent of our
   Congressmen have been college men; 79 per cent of our Senators
   have been college men; 90 per cent of our supreme judges have
   been college men; 92 per cent of our presidents have been
   college men. Training counts; training makes leadership.--N.
   MCGEE WATERS.

    (3269)

   See PRACTISE, GRADUATED.


                           TRAINING CHILDREN

   It is hard to conceive of a more unpromising specimen of a child
   than one who was placed a few years ago in the Babies’ Hospital
   of New York. “Criminal” was plainly marked on the face of this
   eighteen-months-old boy. Heredity and environment had done their
   worst for him. He was actually vicious. He slapt, pinched,
   scratched the other children without provocation. At meal time,
   after satisfying his own hunger, he would grab the food from
   the others, or with one or two sweeps of his small arms shove
   the food from the low table to the floor, and then would either
   step on it or, lying flat on his stomach, gather it under him in
   order to deprive the others.

   A careful eye was kept on him to keep him from doing harm, and
   whenever he started out on his little journeyings of lawlessness
   and mischief he was not forcibly restrained, but his attention
   was diverted in some pleasant way from his wrong intentions. The
   attendants were not allowed, by word, look or action, ever to be
   hasty or unkind; coercion in any form or under any circumstances
   was to be avoided.

   The superintendent of the hospital says of him: “In a
   surprizingly short time this child began to yield to the
   influence which surrounded him; one by one his little vicious
   tricks or habits were forgotten, and an occasional smile--a
   sweet one it was, too--began to reward our efforts, instead of
   the snarls and frowns which had heretofore greeted us. Absolute
   cleanliness and regular habits were instituted as a part of the
   cure.

   “For nearly five years it was my good fortune to be able to keep
   the boy with me, and a more attractive, happy and lovable child
   it would be hard to find anywhere. He was absolutely obedient;
   in fact, it never seemed to occur to him to be otherwise.

   “In the course of time our little charge not only grew to be
   the oldest inhabitant, but the oldest in point of age, and as
   new little ones came and went, his attitude toward them was
   lovely. He looked well after the needs of the tiny ones and took
   great pains to initiate the older ones into orderly and careful
   habits. He shared with them, without a thought of selfishness,
   toys, books, or dainties. Surely, heredity did not endow this
   child with all his good qualities; they were cultivated at an
   early age, and so deeply rooted were these good habits that
   they are likely to remain with him through life.”--_Jewish
   Exponent._

    (3270)

   See PRODIGY, A.


   =Traits Revealed=--See CHARACTER, TEST OF.


   =Transfigured Ugliness=--See BEAUTY IN COMMON LIFE.


                            TRANSFORMATION

   When Central Park, New York, was laid out the engineers
   encountered an immense heap of rocks. What to do with it was
   the question. To move it would cost thousands of dollars.
   Finally, honeysuckles and other vines were planted about it and
   made to climb up and shade it. And now that spot in the park is
   the loveliest and most fragrant anywhere about.

The best education is that which in like manner makes use of even
unlovely traits in building character.

    (3271)

       *       *       *       *       *

The emergence of the soul clothed in its spiritual body is suggested by
this account of the May-flies by Vernon L. Kellogg:

   Young May-flies--the ones that don’t get eaten by dragons,
   stone-flies, water-tigers, and other May-flies--grow larger
   slowly, and wing-pads begin to grow on their backs. In a year,
   maybe, or two years for some kinds, they are ready for their
   great change. And this comes very suddenly. Some late afternoon
   or early evening thousands of young May-flies of the same kind,
   living in the same lake or river, swim up to the surface of the
   water, and, after resting there a few moments, suddenly split
   their skin along the back of the head and perhaps a little way
   farther along the back, and like a flash squirm out of this
   old skin, spread out their gauzy wings and fly away.--“Insect
   Stories.”

    (3272)

       *       *       *       *       *

Here is a hint of what Christianity is constantly trying to do with
wild human nature--transforming it by training off its moral “spines”
and prickles:

   The spineless cactus, the latest plant marvel originated by Mr.
   Burbank, probably gives greater promise of usefulness to man
   than any other of Mr. Burbank’s creations. The spineless cactus
   is an improved variety of the ordinary wild cactus known as the
   prickly pear, of which there are numerous species and more than
   a thousand varieties. (Text.)--_The World To-day._

    (3273)

       *       *       *       *       *

The transformation accomplished by true religion is complete. It
changes the whole nature by the importation of a new agency, a
conquering power, an overmastering principle. We become incandescent by
the energy of the Holy Spirit.

   A carbon coil is a perfectly black substance. It is an emblem of
   utter darkness. But into it is poured an electric current and
   instantly it becomes a reservoir of light. There once lay in the
   earth a dull, dark bit of carbon. It suddenly became the subject
   of the intense transforming energy of volcanic fire. Ever since
   that it has been a diamond in which lives dazzling light. (Text.)

    (3274)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Tohong (Peach-red) was a low-class dancing-girl, bought and
   sold. Restoration was a word not applicable to her, for she
   never was right. She was born lapsed and lived lapsed. Over the
   walls of the world that encircled her came the story of Jesus,
   a man, a wise and pure man, pure as God is pure; in fact, a God
   as God is God, yet it was said that he loved lost and fallen
   women. Peach-red had never before heard of such a being. Her
   soul was sick, and she wondered if she could but meet Him what
   He would say to “the likes of her,” and if He really could cure
   soul-sickness. When or where or how Peach-red met Jesus I know
   not; that she met Him I most assuredly know. Seven years had
   rolled away, and out of my life passed the name of Peach-red.
   It was forgotten in the multitude of names that crowded on me.
   One Sunday, after service in a great meeting-house of some two
   thousand people, with this and that one coming forward to say
   “Peace,” there appeared before me a smiling face known and yet
   not known. “Don’t you remember me? Baptized me seven years ago.
   My old name was Peach-red.” Here was this woman in value once
   less than zero, crowned with the light and liberty and growth
   in grace of seven years.--JAMES S. GALE, “Korea in
   Transition.”

    (3275)

   See BEAUTIFUL, INFLUENCE OF THE; BEAUTY, DECEIVED BY;
     ENVIRONMENT THAT TRANSFORMS; REFORMATION.


                      TRANSFORMATION BY RENEWING

   It is thought by many that time and discipline are alone
   wanted to bring out of this poor nature a perfect man. When
   the good things are planted in us they may be cherished and
   trained into glorious perfection, but they must be planted
   first. Least of all will any mere decoration suffice. A watch
   failing to keep time will not be corrected by any jeweling
   of the case; painting the organ-pipes will not improve the
   music; whitewashing the pump will not purify the water. Society
   in various ways seeks to gild the exterior, but what we need
   is beauty of life springing from truth in the inward parts.
   (Text.)--W. L. WATKINSON, “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (3276)


   =Transformation by Surgery=--See RENEWAL.


                        TRANSFORMATION OF SOULS

   The soul is stored with ungrown seeds and chilled roots and
   frozen sentiments, and they need only the light and warmth
   of the love and truth of God to turn bareness into beauty,
   ignorance into culture, sin into obedience and self-sacrifice.
   Travelers tell us about the sand wastes in Idaho, that under the
   soft touch of a stream of water they are turned into a garden,
   waving with flowers and fruit. All this is a symbol of the
   transformation of the soul. These far-off lands and darkened
   peoples that are now deserts shall to-morrow become pools of
   water, and oases, filled with palm-trees and fountains.--N.
   D. HILLIS.

    (3277)


   =Transformation Through Operation=--See CHARACTER CONDITIONED
      BY THE PHYSICAL.


                        TRANSIENCY OF THE EARTH

He who said that “Heaven and earth shall pass away” uttered no
meaningless hyperbole, as the changes of a few hundred years indicate:

   Coast erosion following severe storms within recent years
   has been so marked at many points on the English coast that
   after extended press discussion a parliamentary commission has
   been appointed to thoroughly investigate the subject, and if
   possible to devise means for the abatement of the injury....
   There can be no doubt that coast erosion is causing serious
   loss of land at many points, particularly on the south and east
   coasts, notwithstanding that the areas gained artificially at
   other points almost compensate for it. It has been estimated
   that in the thousand years from 900 to 1900, an area of nearly
   550 square miles has been worn away by the erosive action
   of the waves and ocean currents. (Text.)--_The Scientific
   American._

    (3278)


                            TRANSIENT, THE

The transient nature of all material things and of all mortal fame is
exprest in this poem by Alfred Noyes:

    No more, proud singers, boast no more!
      Your high, immortal throne
        Will scarce outlast a king’s!
    Time is a sea that knows no shore
        Wherein death idly flings
      Your fame like some small pebble-stone
    That sinks to rise no more.
        Then boast no more, proud singers,
      Your high immortal throne!

    This earth, this little grain of dust
      Drifting among the stars
      With her invisible wars,
    Her love, her hate, her lust;
      This microscopic ball
      Whereof you scan a part so small
    Outlasts but little even your own dust.
      Then boast no more, proud singers,
      Your high immortal throne!

    That golden spark of light must die
      Which now you call your sun;
      Soon will its race be run
    Around its trivial sky!
      What hand shall then unroll
      Dead Maro’s little golden scroll
    When earth and sun in one wide charnal lie?
      Boast no more, proud singers;
      Your high immortal throne
      Will scarce outlast a king’s! (Text.)

    --ALFRED NOYES, _The Bookman_.

    (3279)

   See PERISHABLENESS.


   =Transition=--See ETERNAL, THE, AT HAND.


   =Transitoriness=--See PERMANENCY.


                             TRANSMISSION

Even among the lower orders of creation, a law of transmission obtains.

   A writer in an Australian quarterly for April, 1906, tells of a
   magpie near Melbourne, which while a captive had been taught to
   whistle “Merrily danced the Quaker’s wife, merrily danced the
   Quaker,” and passed the song on to its young, through whom, in a
   more or less fragmentary way, it was transmitted to subsequent
   generations, so that there are “many now in the forest who
   still conclude their beautiful wild notes with the ascending
   notes which terminate the old air.” (Text.)

    (3280)


                             TRANSMUTATION

A black character is not changed in a day to white saintliness, any
more than a black berry to a white one.

   In turning out the white blackberry Mr. Burbank is said to have
   applied the Darwinian theory inversely. He kept on selecting
   berries which, in ripening, did not become pure black, and
   finally got a bush in which the fruit changed from the green
   of immaturity to pure white. This involved the examination of
   some 25,000 bushes several times in several succeeding years.
   The painstaking energy necessary in such a search is merely
   suggested by such figures.--_The Strand Magazine._

    (3281)


                        TRANSMUTATION BY GENIUS

   Many of Burns’ songs were already in existence in the lips
   and minds of the people, rough and coarse, and obscene. Our
   benefactor takes them, and with a touch of inspired alchemy
   transmutes them and leaves them pure gold. He loved the old
   catches and the old tunes, and into these gracious molds he
   poured his exquisite gifts of thought and expression. But for
   him these ancient airs, often wedded to words which no decent
   man could recite, would have perished from that corruption
   if not from neglect. He rescued them for us by his songs,
   and in doing so he hallowed life and sweetened the breath of
   Scotland.--LORD ROSEBERY.

    (3282)


   =Trap, A Natural=--See DEVICES, FATAL.


   =Traps=--See BARRIERS; ENEMIES.


                            TRAPS FOR GIRLS

   Among the many methods used by these fiends in human form to
   trap girls into houses of sin, is courtship and false marriage.
   These men go into the country districts, and, under the guise
   of commercial men, board at the best hotels, dress handsomely,
   cultivate the most captivating manners, and then look for their
   prey. Upon the streets they see a pretty girl and immediately
   lay plans to become acquainted. Then the courtship begins. In
   the present condition of society it is a very easy thing for
   well-reared girls to begin a promiscuous acquaintance, with
   ample opportunity for courtship. There was never a time when
   the bars were so low. With the public dance, or even the more
   exclusive german, the skating-rink and the moving-picture
   arcades, all of which lend themselves to the making of intimate
   and promiscuous acquaintances under questionable surroundings,
   it is easy for a man to come into a community and in a few days
   meet even the best class of girls, to say nothing of the girls
   who are earning a living and who have no home influence. These
   girls are flattered by the handsome, well-drest stranger paying
   them marked attention, and are quick to accept invitations
   to the theater or to walk or drive with him. If the girl
   is religious, he is not above using the cloak of religion,
   expressing fondness for church- and prayer-meetings, and is
   frequently to be found at such places. When a girl’s confidence
   and affection have been won, it is a comparatively easy thing
   to accomplish her ruin, by proposing an elopement. Her scruples
   and arguments are easily overcome by the skilled deceiver, and
   trusting him implicitly as her accepted lover, she unwittingly
   goes to her doom. (Text.)--ERNEST A. BELL, “War on the
   White Slave Trade.”

    (3283)


   =Traveling in the Heights=--See CONFIDENCE.


                        TRAVELING, PROGRESS IN

   For the first time in the history of transatlantic travel,
   people were able to leave London on Saturday and Queenstown on
   Sunday, and eat dinner in New York on Thursday night (September
   2, 1909). The six-day boat set the early records more than
   twenty-five years ago. The five-day boat came along ten years
   later. Friday landings in New York have been common ever since
   the christening days of _Lucania_ and _Campania_,
   fifteen years ago. Now the four-day boat is a fact.

   The remarkable speed made by the _Lusitania_ was attributed
   to the effect of the new propellers, which were fitted to the
   four turbine shafts in July.

    (3284)


                          TREACHERY PUNISHED

   At Kerman, Persia, is a fortress called Galah i Doukhta, or the
   Fort of the Maiden, named after the beautiful traitoress of
   Kerman. When the Moslems laid siege to the city a daughter of
   the king, a beautiful woman and the idol of her father, fell
   madly in love with an Arab prince who was an officer among the
   invaders, and to win him found opportunity to deliver the castle
   into his hands. Curious to learn the motive of such treachery he
   asked the maiden why she had betrayed her father. “For love of
   you,” was the answer. The prince enraged at such guilt ordered
   his men to bind her with cords, face downward, on the back of a
   wild horse and turn horse and rider into the desert. So perished
   without pity the beautiful traitoress of Kerman--an example of
   remorseless retribution.

    (3285)


                           TREASURES LAID UP

   During the reign of King Munbaz there came a most grievous
   famine. The people had parted with their all and were in
   the utmost distress. The king, touched by their affliction,
   ordered his minister to expend the treasures which he and
   his ancestors had amassed in the purchase of corn and other
   necessaries and distribute among the needy. The king’s brothers
   were not of a generous disposition, being grieved to see
   such vast sums of money spent, reproached him with want of
   economy. “Thy forefathers,” said they, “took care to add to the
   treasures which were left them, but thou--thou not only dost
   not add, but dost squander what they have left thee.” “You are
   mistaken, my dear brethren,” replied the generous king, “I,
   too, preserve treasures, as did my ancestors before me. The
   only difference is this: they preserved earthly, but I heavenly
   treasures; they preserved gold and silver, but I have preserved
   lives.”--BAXENDALE.

    (3286)

       *       *       *       *       *

   We allow no immigrant to land in New York as a pauper. He is
   admitted only when he brings with him a little store, and can
   be self-supporting. Do not, I beseech of you, go toward the end
   of your career without having laid up much treasure in heaven,
   and sent forward great possessions, having made yourself to be
   waited for, expected, beyond, as you enter into glory and honor
   and immortal life.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (3287)

   See REWARDS, SPIRITUAL.


   =Treatment All-important=--See TACT.


                        TREE A SPIRITUAL SYMBOL

   Undoubtedly you know how it feels to behold a cluster of young
   birches bending gracefully over a sky-mirroring sheet of blue
   water. Other trees are somberly beautiful like the pines, or
   inspiringly majestic like the elms, both of which I love dearly.
   But the sharply pointed cone of the pine suggests the earth on
   which its broad base rests rather than the sky toward which
   its top tends a little too urgently. And the elm represents
   the material side of man in the utmost development attainable,
   while the spirit still remains in comparative subordination. The
   birch, on the other hand, is all spirit, it seems to me--but
   without sacrifice of the indispensable material foundation.
   Its subtly tapering lines send the eye irresistibly upward and
   onward to the things that lie ahead and above--things which are
   neither alien nor hostile to those of the present place and
   moment, but which, instead, represent the ideal fulfilment of
   the latter. The birch, therefore, approaches more closely than
   anything else I can think of toward being a true symbol of life
   at its best.--EDWIN BJORKMAN, _Collier’s Weekly_.

    (3288)


                            TREE AND FRUIT

    There is no frost hath power to blight
        The tree God shields;
    The roots are warm beneath soft snows,
    And when spring comes it surely knows,
    And every bud to blossom grows.
        The tree God shields
    Grows on apace by day and night,
    Till sweet to taste and fair to sight
        Its fruit it yields.

    There is no storm hath power to blast
        The tree God knows;
    No thunderbolt, nor beating rain,
    Nor lightning flash, nor hurricane--
    When they are spent it doth remain.
        The tree God knows
    Through every tempest standeth fast,
    And from its first day to its last
        Still fairer grows. (Text.)

    (3289)


                        TRIAL A MEANS OF GRACE

Troubles and afflictions are intended under the dispensation of divine
grace to bring out the deeper capacities of the soul. Experiences which
are calculated to deaden the careless mind will develop consecration,
zeal, and devotion in the thoughtful.

   Scientists subject radium to every conceivable test. In an
   ordinary temperature it never ceases emitting light, heat,
   and electricity. It was at first imagined that this perpetual
   threefold emanation would cease, or at any rate be diminished,
   if the substance were exposed to intense cold. But it was
   discovered that radium when immersed in liquid air, which is
   extremely cold, immediately evolved more light, heat, and
   electricity. Then it was plunged into liquid hydrogen, of which
   the coldness is almost incalculable and inconceivable. The
   radium only glowed still more intensely with its emanations of
   light, heat and electricity.

    (3290)


                             TRIAL REFINES

   In the English county of Cornwall are great beds of what is
   called “china clay.” You may take up a lump of this substance
   and examine it in vain with the view of discovering anything
   admirable or beautiful. But one day you may be traveling in
   the English midlands, where you may be invited to inspect the
   factories in which are made the exquisite Royal Worcester
   porcelain or the equally precious Wedgwood ware. You will
   be fascinated by everything you see. The same dead, cold,
   repellent, ugly clay you saw in Cornwall you are now admiring
   with ecstasy. It has been brought to the potteries, and touched
   by the fire, and painted by the artist, so that it rivals even
   the loveliest flowers in delicacy and beauty.

    (3291)


                     TRIBULATION THE PATH TO GLORY

    But know for all time this:
      There’s blood upon the way the saints have trod,
        The singer of a day shall pass and die.
        The world itself shall pass, who passed them by;
        But they of the exceeding bitter cry,
    When Death itself is dead and life is bliss,
      Shall stand in heaven and sing their songs to God. (Text.)

    --ETHEL EDWARDS, _The Outlook_ (London).

    (3292)


                         TRIUMPH BY SELECTION

A moral reason for the survival of the fittest is given by Walton W.
Battershall in the _Critic_:

    The weak give way that stronger may have room
    For sovereign brain and soul to quell the brute.
    Thus, in the epic of this earth, harsh rhythms
    Are woven, that break the triumph song with moans
    And death-cries. Still rolls the eternal song,
    Setting God’s theme to grander, sweeter notes,
    For us to strike; fighting old savageries
    That linger in the twilights of the dawn.(Text.)

    (3293)


                           TRIUMPH IN DEATH

   In the Boxer riots many Chinese Christian converts laid down
   their lives with cheerful courage “for the sake of the Name.”
   One Chinaman who was captured by the Boxers and was told he was
   about to be put to death, asked permission to put on his best
   clothes. “For,” said the martyr, “I am going to the palace of
   the King.” His wonderful and serene faith so imprest the cruel
   murderers that, after his death, they dug out his heart to try
   and find the secret of his courage. In North China the blood of
   the martyrs has proved, indeed, the seed of the Church.

“To the palace of the King” is whither all Christians are wending their
way. (Text.)

    (3294)


                           TRIUMPH IN DEFEAT

Out of seeming defeat often springs the truest triumph, and even
despair has often been the prelude to genuine victory. Especially does
the sacrifice of self achieve glorious conquest.

   One of the noblest of the world’s heroes was Vercingetorix, who
   roused Gaul against Cæsar. Tho he lost his own life, he saved
   thousands of other lives. When he perceived that the war was
   lost he had the fortitude to acknowledge defeat and to recognize
   that he was the man whom the Roman commander most desired to
   capture. Assembling his officers, he informed them that he was
   willing to sacrifice himself in order to save them all. In due
   time he was led in chains through Rome, as part of Cæsar’s
   triumphant procession and stabbed to death afterward in the
   darkness of his prison cell. To-day, on his rock-fortress, known
   now as Alise St. Reine, stands a gigantic bronze statue of him,
   proud, fearless, and strong, as on that last day of his freedom,
   with his hands on his sword-hilt, and his head turned toward the
   little hill across the valley where his allies were scattered
   and his cause was slain.

    (3295)


                        TRIUMPH OF CHRISTIANITY

   The World’s Sunday-school Convention in Rome was a great
   occasion and a notable success. Poetically significant was the
   gathering amid the memorable ruins of the Colosseum. Here on
   the very sands that have been soaked with the blood of early
   Christian martyrs, where thousands have met the fierce Numidian
   lion and been torn to pieces for Christ’s sake, over a thousand
   delegates peacefully assembled to bear witness to the very
   Nazarene in whose cause those martyrs suffered. The pagan Roman
   persecutors sought to wipe out the remembrance of His name from
   the earth; and here this great company of Christian delegates
   meet to celebrate His name, never before so widely worshiped and
   adored as to-day.

    (3296)


                            TRIVIAL CAUSES

   The clock of the Potsdam Garrison Church, which Frederick the
   Great in his day had placed in the tower of that cathedral, and
   which hourly chimed familiar strains, suddenly stopt. The cause
   of this sudden cessation of both its works and its music was the
   intrusion of a brown butterfly, which alighted in its wheelworks.

Is it not often thus with the heart of man, out of which well songs of
joy and praise--songs suddenly and unexpectedly reduced to silence? The
cause of it often is so insignificant a thing as a transient thought, a
carking care, which becomes entangled in the delicate spiritual works
and brings the heavenly music to a standstill.

    (3297)


                                TROUBLE

Blest is that person who can make the following lines part of his
philosophy:

    ’Tis easy enough to be pleasant
    When life flows by like a song,
      But the one worth while
      Is the one who will smile
    When everything goes dead wrong.

    For the test of the heart is trouble,
    And that always comes with years,
      And the smile that is worth
      All the praises of earth
    Is the smile that smiles through tears.

    (3298)

       *       *       *       *       *

We must not always interpret our destiny by the aspect of the present.
If we contend patiently and bravely with current adversity, out of the
darkness prosperity may be brought to light.

   A certain great company runs a copper-smelting plant. The sulfur
   fumes generated in this plant were seriously injuring vegetation
   in the surrounding country. The State brought suit to compel
   the company to prevent this injury to vegetation, and won the
   suit. The company was put to much trouble and expense, but in
   its effort to find some method of preventing that injury to
   its neighbors it discovered that the gases could be captured
   and converted into sulfuric acid. Thus, out of what was not
   only a waste product but an injurious product, this company has
   discovered a new source of great profit. And all because it “got
   into trouble.” The “afterward” of all the troubles that come to
   us in life has never yet been dreamed of by the wisest seer.
   (Text.)

    (3299)


                           TROUBLE, BORROWED

Dr. S. B. Dunn gives some good advice in this bit of verse:

    The heart too often hath quailed with dread,
      And quite its courage lost,
    By casting its glance too far ahead
      For the bridge that never was crossed.

    The toughest fight, the bitterest dregs,
      The stormiest sea that tossed,
    Was the passage-at-arms--no, the passage-at-legs,
      Of the bridge that never was crossed.

    A wind that withers wherever it goes,
      And biting as winter frost;
    Is the icy blast that constantly blows
      From the bridge that never was crossed.

    What folly for mortals to travel that way,
      As many have found to their cost--
    To tempt the terrors by night or by day
      Of the bridge that never was crossed.

    The adage is old and worn a bit,
      But worthy of being embossed--
    Never cross a bridge till you come to it--
      The bridge that must be crossed.

    (3300)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Nobody is made so uncomfortable by borrowing trouble as the
   borrower himself, altho, of course, everybody in the region
   is disturbed and vexed by the habit. There is an ancient
   Welsh legend which has always seemed to us a case in point.
   “There were two kings formerly in Britain,” the legend says,
   “named Nynniaw and Peibiaw. As these two ranged the fields one
   starlit night, ‘See,’ said Nynniaw (who at this point seems
   something of a poet), ‘what a beautiful and extensive field I
   possess.’ ‘Where is it?’ said Peibiaw. ‘The whole firmament,’
   said Nynniaw, ‘far as vision can extend.’ ‘And dost thou see,’
   said Peibiaw, ‘what countless herds and flocks of cattle and
   sheep I have depasturing thy field?’ ‘Where are they?’ said
   Nynniaw. ‘Why, the whole host of stars which thou seest,’ said
   Peibiaw, ‘and each of golden effulgence, with the moon for their
   shepherdess to superintend their wanderings.’ ‘They shall not
   graze in my pasture,’ said Nynniaw (who now appears to have been
   fitly named). ‘They shall,’ said Peibiaw. ‘They shall not,’
   said one. ‘They shall,’ said the other, repeatedly, bandying
   contradiction, until at last it arose to wild contention
   between them, and from contention it came to furious war, until
   armies and subjects of both were nearly annihilated in the
   desolation.”--_Harper’s Bazar._

    (3301)


                          TROUBLE BRAVELY MET

   There is a manuscript letter written by Thomas More to his wife,
   Alyce, when the news came that the great mansion at Chelsea,
   with its offices and huge granaries, had been almost destroyed
   by fire. Instead of lamenting his loss, he writes, “I pray you,
   Alyce, with my children, be merry in God. Find out if any poor
   neighbors stored their corn in the granaries, and recompense
   them. Discharge no servant until he have another abiding-place.
   Be of good cheer. Take all the household with you to church, and
   thank God for what He hath taken and what He hath left.”

    (3302)

   See COURAGE IN LIFE.


   =Trouble Conquered=--See FAITH.


   =Trouble, Ignoring=--See EVIL, IGNORING.


                            TROUBLE UPLIFTS

   The aviators tell us that the first rule of flight is to turn
   the flying-machine against the wind, and let it lift you into
   the heights. When the bird is flying for pleasure it flies
   with the wind, but if you lift a club toward the bird, and it
   wishes to rise, it turns and flies against the wind, and upward
   soars toward the sun. Trouble is a divine wind, let loose
   to lift man into the heights, where eternal beauty hath her
   dwelling-place.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (3303)


   =Troubles=--See TOOLS, MORAL.


                           TROUBLES, MEETING

   I have recently read this story about an unhappy woman. She
   was, indeed, very miserable, and for years her complaints were
   loud and constant. But one day she happened to read of a naval
   disaster: the ship was doomed, but the officers set the band
   playing, the flags flying, and, drest in full uniform, with
   their white gloves on, waited for the ship to go down.

   She thought of herself, and was ashamed. Never had she met
   disaster except with tears and complaints. “I won’t be as I
   have been any more,” she said to herself. “When troubles come
   to me, tho I perish as those officers did, I will meet them as
   they did, with flags flying, the band playing, and my white
   gloves on.” And new troubles came; but with each one she said to
   herself, “The flags must fly to-day, the band play, and I must
   have my white gloves on.” And, if the trial were very severe,
   she would actually put on her best clothes, and with smiling
   face go out to perform some act of cheerful kindness.

   And after some years the result is that she seems to be happy
   and prosperous. People call her fortunate. Another complaining
   woman said to her, “Oh, it is well enough for you to talk, you
   who have never known a trouble in your life.”

   “A trouble in my life!” the cheerful woman said to herself, and
   stopt to think. “A trouble! Perhaps not; but now, thank God,
   those which I thought I had seem no longer to have belonged to
   me, but to some other person living centuries ago.” And she felt
   sorry for her fretful friend.--M. O. SIMMONS.

    (3304)

   See DEATH, CHRISTIAN ATTITUDE TOWARD.


                                 TRUST

   It is a pleasant sight sometimes to see a child and a father at
   a crowded London crossing; to the child’s imagination the street
   with its rattle of horses and vehicles is the picture of danger
   and death--to attempt to get to the other side alone would be
   certain destruction; but as the father stands at the edge of the
   pavement, the child looks up to him with a glance of perfect
   trust and puts its hand in his, and goes with him through the
   tangled maze of traffic without a thought of danger or fear.
   This is just what the converted soul does with regard to the
   Lord Jesus Christ. It looks up into His gentle face with trust,
   and goes with Him whithersoever He will lead it; there can be
   no danger and no misgiving; sin and temptation have lost their
   power; the soul shall pass through the tangled maze of life
   safely.

    (3305)

       *       *       *       *       *

   When the writer was visiting a certain school, a little fellow
   came up and spoke to the teacher. After he had returned to his
   seat the teacher said, “There is a boy I can trust.” Think of
   that commendation! What a character that boy had earned! He
   had already what would in the future be worth to him more than
   a fortune. It would be a passport into the best store in the
   city, and what is better, into the confidence and respect of the
   entire community.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (3306)


   =Trust Disarms=--See CONFIDENCE.


                            TRUST IN DEATH

   Mozart’s dying words were, “From heaven’s mercy alone can I hope
   for succor; and it will be granted, Emilie (his young daughter),
   in the time of my utmost need; yes, in the hour of death I will
   claim His help who is always ready to aid those who trust in Him.

   “Take these notes, the last I shall ever pen, and sit down to
   the instrument. Sing with them the hymn so beloved by your
   mother and let me once more hear those tones which have been my
   delight since childhood.”

   Emilie closed the second stanza,

    “Spirit, how bright is the road
      For which thou art now on the wing!
    Thy home it will be with thy Savior and God,
      Their loud hallelujahs to sing,”

   and waited for the mild voice of her father’s praise. But he was
   gone.

How beautiful is the soul’s farewell to all that is mortal, when we can
say as one of old, “Yea, tho I walk through the valley of the shadow of
death, I will fear no evil for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff
they comfort me.”

    (3307)


                             TRUST IN GOD

   I recently came from my summer home to New York by the night
   train. The night was dark, foggy and rainy. I did not know the
   engineer. I was not sure he could see the curves, the switches,
   the grades. It was possible that he might fall asleep at his
   post and ditch the train. And yet, believing he was trustworthy,
   else he would not be in so responsible a position, I went to
   my berth, undrest, slept soundly, and when I awoke the bright
   sun was shining into my window, with my destination reached. I
   did not feel I did a foolhardy act, tho engineers have slept
   at their posts, have missed the switches, have ditched their
   trains. And yet I trusted my life to a man I had never seen, and
   under most unfavorable circumstances. Thousands are doing that
   very thing daily. How much more should we trust an overruling
   Providence guiding His children through all storms and darkness,
   when our hearts bear witness to His fidelity.--ROBERT
   MACDONALD.

    (3308)


                            TRUSTWORTHINESS

   “Are they fine berries?” asked a lady of the fruit-peddler,
   who had just rattled off the usual formula, “Blueb’ries,
   blackb’ries, huckleb’ries, strawb’ries.”

   “Well, pretty good,” he answered. “Not so to say the best.”

   “I don’t want them, then,” she answered shortly. “If you can’t
   recommend them yourself, they won’t suit me.” A moment later she
   opened the window to speak to him on the sidewalk. “You may come
   to-morrow, tho, or the next time that you do have nice ones.
   It’s something to be able to trust you to tell the truth about
   them.”--_Selected._

    (3309)


   =Trustworthiness, Human=--See CONFIDENCE IN MEN.


   =Truth=--See LYING.


                          TRUTH AND CRITICISM

   Once Mr. Beecher, preaching on war, and the tax burden, spoke of
   Russia as having a standing army of fifteen hundred billions.
   One hearer laughed, Mr. Beecher grew red, stamped on the floor,
   and exclaimed, “I say Russia has fifteen hundred billions of men
   in her standing army”--that settled it! Well, but Mr. Beecher’s
   error in mathematics did not invalidate his arguments for
   patriotism, or duty, or home, or the love of God; nor need you
   be disturbed by the geology or astronomy or history of the Old
   Testament.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (3310)


                              TRUTH FATAL

   Of the great caution with which truth must often be handled, I
   can not give you a better illustration than the following from
   my own experience. A young man, accompanied by his young wife,
   came from a distant place, and sent for me to see him at his
   hotel. He wanted his chest examined, he told me. Did he wish to
   be informed of what I might discover? He did. I made the _ante
   mortem_ autopsy desired. Tubercles; cavities; disease in
   full blast; death waiting at the door. I did not say this, of
   course, but waited for his question. “Are there any tubercles?”
   he asked presently. “Yes, there are.” There was silence for a
   brief space, and then like Esau, he lifted up his voice and
   wept; he cried with a great and exceedingly bitter cry, and
   then the twain, husband and wife, with loud ululation and
   passionate wringing of hands, shrieked in wild chorus like the
   _keeners_ of an Irish funeral, and would not be soothed or
   comforted. The fool! He had brought a letter from his physician,
   warning me not to give an opinion to the patient himself, but
   to write it to him, the medical adviser, and this letter the
   patient had kept back, determined to have my opinion from my
   own lips, not doubting that it would be favorable. In six weeks
   he was dead, and I never questioned that his own folly and my
   telling him the naked truth killed him before his time.

   Truth is the breath of life to human society. It is the food of
   the immortal spirit. Yet a single word of it may kill a man as
   suddenly as a drop of prussic acid. An old gentleman was sitting
   at a table when the news that Napoleon had returned from Elba
   was told him. He started up, repeated a line from a French play,
   which may be thus Englished:

   “The fatal secret is at length revealed,” and fell senseless
   in apoplexy. You remember the story of the old man who expired
   on hearing that his sons were crowned at the Olympic games.
   A worthy inhabitant of a village in New Hampshire fell dead
   on hearing that he was chosen town clerk.--OLIVER WENDELL
   HOLMES, JR.

    (3311)


                           TRUTH, GIRDLE OF

   It is the universal custom among the Parsees of the Far East
   to wear a girdle around their waists, which is twisted into
   three knots in a most complicated fashion. In performing their
   daily ablutions this girdle must be removed, and in replacing
   it certain prayers are repeated for each knot. The three knots
   represent good thoughts, good words, and good deeds, all
   constituting a threefold cord that is to be not easily broken.

A good companion to the “girdle of truth” which the Christian may wear.
(Text.)

    (3312)


   =Truth in Men=--See CONFIDENCE IN MEN.


   =Truth not Static=--See CREEDS, INSECURITY OF.


   =Truth, Standing for=--See ARGUING FOR TRUTH.


   =Truth-telling=--See TRUSTWORTHINESS.


   =Truth Withheld=--See DISCRETION.


                         TRUTHFULNESS REWARDED

   I remember once hearing of a boy who was very, very poor. He
   lived in a foreign country, and his mother said to him one day
   that he must go into the great city and start in business, and
   she took his coat and cut it open and sewed between the lining
   and the coat forty golden dinars, which she had saved up for
   many years to start him in life. She told him to take care of
   robbers as he went across the desert; and as he was going out of
   the door she said: “My boy, I have only two words for you, ‘Fear
   God, and never tell a lie.’” The boy started off, and toward
   evening he saw glittering in the distance the minarets of the
   great city, but between the city and himself he saw a cloud of
   dust; it came nearer; presently he saw that it was a band of
   robbers. One of the robbers left the rest and rode toward him,
   and said: “Boy, what have you got?” And the boy looked him in
   the face and said: “I have forty golden dinars sewed up in my
   coat.” And the robber laughed and wheeled round his horse and
   went away back. He would not believe the boy. Presently another
   robber came, and he said: “Boy, what have you got?” “Forty
   golden dinars sewed up in my coat.” The robber said: “The boy
   is a fool,” and wheeled his horse and rode away back. By and
   by the robber captain came, and he said: “Boy, what have you
   got?” “I have forty golden dinars sewed up in my coat.” And
   the robber dismounted and put his hand over the boy’s breast,
   felt something round, counted one, two, three, four, five,
   till he counted out the forty golden coins. He looked the boy
   in the face and said: “Why did you tell me that?” The boy said:
   “Because of God and my mother.” And the robber leaned on his
   spear and thought, and said: “Wait a moment.” He mounted his
   horse, rode back to the rest of the robbers, and came back in
   about five minutes with his dress changed. This time he looked
   not like a robber, but like a merchant. He took the boy up on
   his horse and said: “My boy, I have long wanted to do something
   for my God and for my mother, and I have this moment renounced
   my robber’s life. I am also a merchant. I have a large business
   house in the city. I want you to come and live with me, to
   teach me about your God; and you will be rich, and your mother
   some day will come and live with us.” And it all happened.
   (Text.)--HENRY DRUMMOND.

    (3313)


  [Illustration: TUBERCLE BACILLI MAGNIFIED SEVERAL THOUSAND
  TIMES]

                             TUBERCULOSIS

For the following facts and suggestions we are indebted to “The
National Association for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis,” New
York:

   Consumption, or tuberculosis, is a disease of the lungs which
   is taken from others, and is not simply due to catching cold.
   It is generally caused by germs, known as tubercle bacilli,
   which enter the body with the air breathed. The matter which
   consumptives cough or spit up usually contains these germs in
   great numbers, and if those who have the disease spit upon the
   floor, walls or elsewhere, the matter will dry, become powdered,
   and any draught or wind will distribute the germs in it with the
   dust in the air. Any person may catch the disease by taking in
   with the air he breathes the germs spread about in this manner.
   He may also contract the disease by taking into his system the
   germs contained in the small drops of saliva expelled by a
   consumptive when coughing or sneezing. It should be known that
   it is not dangerous to live with a consumptive if the matter
   coughed up by him is properly disposed of.

   Consumption may be cured at home in many instances if it is
   recognized early and proper means are taken for its treatment.
   When a member of a family is found to have consumption and can
   not be sent to a sanatorium, arrangements for taking the cure at
   home should be made as soon as the disease is discovered.

   Open-air treatment is the most approved method of cure. Rest is
   a most important part of the open-air treatment, and exercise
   must be regulated by the doctor. Always have at hand an extra
   wrap, and never remain out if chilled. Cold weather should have
   a bracing effect, and when it does not, go into a warm room
   and get a hot drink, preferably milk, remaining indoors until
   comfortably warm. When going out again use more wraps, and keep
   behind a shield or screen that breaks the force of the wind,
   Always be cheerful and hopeful; never waste your strength in
   anger or by being cross. Lead a temperate life, go to bed early
   and get up late; do not use alcohol in any form except when
   prescribed by your doctor. Do away with tobacco if possible, and
   use only weak tea and coffee in small quantities. Never swallow
   the matter coughed up, but always destroy every particle by
   spitting in a paper or cloth which can be burned. Never allow
   the hands, face or clothing to be soiled by sputum, and if this
   happens by accident, wash the place soiled with soap and hot
   water. Men who have consumption should not wear a mustache or
   beard unless it is trimmed close. Particular care must be taken,
   when sneezing and coughing, to hold in the hands before the face
   a cloth which can be burned. Soiled bed-clothes, night-dresses,
   other washable garments and personal linen should be handled as
   little as possible until they are boiled prior to their being
   washed. The dishes used by the patient must be boiled after each
   meal.

   That tuberculosis is particularly fatal to the working men
   may be clearly seen from the fact that at least one-third of
   the deaths during the chief working period of life are caused
   by pulmonary tuberculosis. Every other workman who becomes
   incapacitated must ascribe his condition to consumption. Dr.
   Lawrence F. Flick says: “Tuberculosis is peculiarly a disease
   of the wage-workers, and this is so for the very good reason
   that one of the causes of the disease is overwork.” In some
   trades, such as the metal polishers, brass workers, and stone
   workers, from 35 to 50 per cent. of all deaths are caused by
   tuberculosis. Dusty trades are particularly dangerous.

   Appropriations of over $4,000,000 for the suppression of
   consumption have been made by twenty-eight State Legislatures
   in session during 1909, according to a statement issued to-day
   by the National Association for the Study and Prevention of
   Tuberculosis.

   In 1909–10, forty-three State and Territorial Legislatures
   were in session. Of this number, 28 passed laws pertaining to
   tuberculosis; eight others considered such legislation, and in
   only seven States no measures about consumption were presented.
   In all, 101 laws relating to the prevention or treatment of
   human tuberculosis were considered, and out of this number 64
   were passed.

  [Illustration: PERCENTAGE OF DEATHS FROM TUBERCULOSIS PER
  100,000 WITH RELATIVE MORTALITY PERCENTAGE OF WHITE AND
  COLORED POPULATION]

   That the “white plague,” as it is often called, is a national
   concern is shown by the map on next page.

   In 1909, out of the $8,180,621.50 spent for the prevention and
   treatment of tuberculosis, $4,362,750.03 was spent from public
   money, and $3,817,871.47 from funds voluntarily contributed. For
   the carrying on of State, Federal and municipal tuberculosis
   work in 1910, over $9,000,000 has been appropriated. Of this
   sum, the State Legislatures have granted $4,100,000, the
   municipal and county bodies, $3,975,500, and the Federal
   Government, $1,000,000.

   About 800,000 women under the Health Department of the General
   Federation of Women’s Clubs in every State and Territory of
   the United States are banded together against this disease,
   and more than 2,000 clubs are taking a special interest in the
   crusade. Not less than $500,000 is raised annually by them for
   tuberculosis work, besides millions that are secured through
   their efforts in State and municipal appropriations.

  [Illustration: MAP SHOWING RELATIVE MORTALITY FROM
  TUBERCULOSIS IN THE UNITED STATES]

   Over 4,000,000 churchgoers, nearly 40,000 sermons and preachers,
   and more than 1,250,000 pieces of literature, are some of the
   totals given in a preliminary report issued by the National
   Association for the Study and Prevention of Tuberculosis, of the
   results of the first National Tuberculosis Sunday ever held, on
   April 24, 1910.

   The report states that fully one-eighth of the 33,000,000 listed
   communicants of the churches of the United States heard the
   gospel of health on Tuberculosis Sunday, and that the number
   of people who were reached by notices and sermons printed in
   the newspapers will aggregate 25,000,000. Hardly a paper in the
   country failed to announce the occasion.

    (3314)


   =Tumbles Unimportant=--See DEFEAT.


   =Turn About Fair Play=--See TONGUE, THE.


   =Type, Fixt=--See ENVIRONMENT, ADAPTATION TO.


                            TYPES, DISTINCT

Suppose we had Christ’s spirit as an ideal would we not also develop a
distinct type? It is this type that is going to conquer the world.

   It is said of the actors in the Oberammergau play that through
   loyalty to ideals the villagers have developed distinct
   types--the Christ type, the apostle type.

    (3315)




                                   U


                               UNBELIEF

   Years ago, in my Sunday-school, a young fellow came to me and
   said: “I have come to the conclusion that there is no God, no
   future life, no heaven and no hell. When you are dead, you
   are dead, and that is the end of you.” My reply was: “My dear
   fellow, these opinions will wreck you before you get through.”
   Before long, he left the Sunday-school, and I saw no more of
   him for years. Then one evening a knock came at my study door,
   and behold! the young man appeared. He was much run down, was
   blear-eyed and bloated. “Is that you, Fred?” said I. “Yes,” he
   replied. “Is it drink?” said I. “Yes,” he replied again. “Do you
   remember that I told you your opinions would wreck you before
   you got through?”--A. F. SCHAUFFLER, _The Christian
   Herald_.

    (3316)

       *       *       *       *       *

    The waves of unbelief mount and recede,
      And jar the century with strong unrest;
    They carry back the sands of many a creed,
      But only leave the rock more manifest.
    (Text.)

    (3317)


   =Uncertainty of Life=--See PRECAUTION.


                         UNCONSCIOUS GREATNESS

   If John Wesley himself, the little, long-nosed, long-chinned,
   peremptory man who, on March 9, 1791, was carried to his
   grave by six poor men, “leaving behind him nothing but a good
   library of books, a well-worn clergyman’s gown, a much-abused
   reputation, and--the Methodist Church, could return to this
   world just now, when so much admiring ink is being poured upon
   his head, he would probably be the most astonished man on the
   planet.” For if Wesley has achieved fame, he never intended it.
   Seeley says that England conquered and peopled half the world
   in a fit of absence of mind. And if Wesley built up one of the
   greatest of modern churches, and supplied a new starting-point
   to modern religious history, it was with an entire absence of
   conscious intention. (Text.)--W. H. FITCHETT, “Wesley
   and His Century.”

    (3318)


                         UNCONSCIOUS INFLUENCE

   A Persian fable says: One day A wanderer found a lump of clay
   So redolent of sweet perfume Its odors scented all the room.
   “What are thou?” was his quick demand. “Art thou some gem from
   Samarcand, Or spikenard in this rude disguise, Or other costly
   merchandise?” “Nay, I am but a lump of clay.” “Then, whence this
   wondrous perfume, say!” “Friend, if the secret I disclose-- I
   have been dwelling with the rose.”

   Dear Lord, abide with us, that we May draw our perfume fresh
   from thee.

It is nothing wonderful that men said of the early disciples that
they had been with Jesus. They had in their life the perfume of the
rose--the Rose of Sharon.

    (3319)


   =Understanding, Perfect=--See FUTURE LIFE.


                      UNDERSTANDING, SYMPATHETIC

    If I knew you and you knew me--
    If both of us could clearly see,
    And with an inner sight divine
    The meaning of your heart and mine,
    I’m sure that we would differ less
    And clasp our hands in friendliness;
    Our thoughts would pleasantly agree
    If I knew you and you knew me.

    --NIXON WALTERMAN, _Epworth Herald_.

    (3320)


                      UNEMPLOYED, PROBLEM OF THE

The problem of the unemployed is emphasized by facts and comments such
as these from the metropolitan press:

   James Kelly, seventy years old, a homeless wanderer, was found
   frozen to death within a few feet of the General Philip Schuyler
   estate, near Irvington.

   Wilson Meyers, seventy years old, and homeless, was found dead
   in a stable near the Long Island Railroad tracks, at Rockaway
   Beach.

   And 2,000 people in the Bowery bread-line on these freezing
   nights.

   At the extraordinary meeting held in the Bowery Mission, where
   five hundred men from the bread-line met at the invitation
   of the Rev. J. G. Hallimond to talk over the facts of their
   situation, it was made perfectly clear that a large proportion
   of the company had nothing whatever the matter with them as
   individuals. They were skilled and sober mechanics and clerks,
   capable of rendering valuable services to society and eager to
   do it. (Text.)

    (3321)


                            UNEXPECTED, THE

   At the critical period of the American Civil War when General
   Hooker was succeeded by General Meade, neither Meade nor Lee
   desired or expected to fight a battle at Gettysburg, Lee wishing
   to have it at Cashtown and Meade on Pipe Creek, but both were
   drawn into it against positive orders to the contrary, and yet
   that battle proved to be the turning-point in the fortunes of
   the war.

Many of the greatest results in history and in individual lives turn
on circumstances wholly unforeseen by man, which some call accident or
chance, but which the wise know to be an overruling Providence. (Text.)

    (3322)


   =Unexpected Value=--See APPRECIATION.


   =Unfaith=--See CONFIDENCE, LACK OF; TIME BRINGS FORTUNE.


   =Unfaithfulness, Penalty of=--See RESPECT, NO, OF PERSONS.


                        UNFORGIVING SPIRIT, THE

   La Tude, a young Frenchman, for a trifling offense, was seized
   and thrown into prison by order of Madame de Pompadour. There he
   remained until her death in 1764. Two years before she died he
   wrote this unfeeling woman: “I have suffered fourteen years; let
   all be buried forever in the blood of Jesus.” But she remained
   fixt in her determination to show him no mercy. This young
   Frenchman remained in prison almost thirty-five years. (Text.)

    (3323)


                               UNFITNESS

   A man who weighs one hundred and fifty pounds on the earth would
   weigh only two pounds on the planet Mars, and so could hardly
   stand; while on the sun he would weigh two tons and so would
   sink, like a stone in the sea, into its hot marshes. Each man is
   too light for some places, too heavy for others, and just right
   for others. Failing in a work for which he is unfitted often
   brings him to his true place.

    (3324)

   See ATTAINMENT, SUPERFICIAL.


                       UNHAPPINESS OF THE GREAT

How well do the instances cited below illustrate the oft-quoted
sentence of Augustine, “Restless are our hearts, O God, until they rest
in Thee.”

   Sheridan, idol of his day, had for his last words: “I am
   absolutely undone.” “Take me back to my room,” sighed Sir Walter
   Scott; “there is no rest for me but the grave.” Charles Lamb
   said: “I walk up and down thinking I am happy, but feeling I am
   not.” Edmund Burke said he would not give a peck of refuse wheat
   for all the fame in the world.

    (3325)


   =Uniform as a Preparation for Fighting=--See DRESS AFFECTING MOODS.


                                 UNION

Where such things can be done in nature as are described below there
should be hope of a time when the varieties of human nature, varying
sects, creeds and practises may be merged into a common Christian type.

   An orange-cucumber, or cucumber-orange, as the name has not yet
   been decided, is a freak combination raised by Howard S. Hill, a
   cucumber grower of Gardner, Mass., which he is cultivating as a
   new dish to tickle the palate of exacting diners.

   The new fruit or vegetable resulted from an experiment made
   by Mr. Hill. At that time an orange-tree was in full bloom in
   his cucumber hothouse at the same time that the blossom of the
   cucumber vines first appeared. Mr. Hill transferred the pollen
   from the orange-blossoms to several cucumber flowers.

   The first appearance of the fruit was the same as that of an
   ordinary infant cucumber, but as the fruit grew, the result
   of the inoculation became apparent. The cucumber, instead
   of lengthening out, remained round like an orange, with the
   orange-bloom scar, but the skin was that of a cucumber, with
   the same corruptions. When ripened the new product assumed a
   bright orange color, and from a distance appeared the same as
   an orange.

   With the seeds from the best specimens Mr. Hill is growing
   a number of vines and thinks that the new fruit will become
   established and prove a favorite, as the taste of the orange
   and cucumber blend in an excellent manner and make a pleasing
   combination.

    (3326)


                           UNION WITH CHRIST

   There is an operation in surgery when an organ has gotten
   detached; the only way for it to be kept in place is to cut
   it, and cut the near-by muscles, and then sew the two wounds
   together. In process of healing, the organ grows fast to its
   support. The surest way for a heart to grow fast to Christ is to
   bring its own bleeding side to the side of the Christ who was
   wounded for it, and the two will become one. (Text.)--JAMES
   M. STIFLER, “The Fighting Saint.”

    (3327)

   See CHRIST, UNION WITH.


   =United States and China=-- See AMERICA’S ATTITUDE.


                                 UNITY

The Rev. S. Miller Hageman predicts the unity of all human designs in
this verse:

    All things yet shall work together, and so working, orb in one,
    As the sun draws back its sunbeams when the dial-day is done;
    All things yet shall gather roundly, and unite, and shape, and climb,
    Into truth’s great golden unit, in the ripe result of time.

    (3328)

       *       *       *       *       *

   One of the Greek poets sings of two devoted friends who visited
   the shop of Vulcan, and desired to be joined in a closer and
   indissoluble union. Vulcan took out their hearts, accordingly,
   laid them on his anvil, and with many sturdy blows with his
   hammer welded them into one.

A mightier power than Vulcan in a gentler way joins human hearts to one
another and all to Himself at a forge whose fire is love. (Text.)

    (3329)

       *       *       *       *       *

J. D. Freeman, in “Concerning the Christ,” says:

   A building may include a multitude and variety of compartments.
   The town hall of Leicester you will find a building of this
   sort. The town council room is beautifully decorated with
   fine paintings, and the light streams in abundantly through
   stained-glass windows. It is an inviting place. But in the
   basement you will find apartments with bare walls, cold stone
   floors, plain benches, and iron doors with padlocks. These rooms
   are occupied by a less attractive set of people. Yet all the
   rooms above and below are part of one scheme, and the beautiful
   council chamber can not disown the repellent cell of the prison.

The same principles hold true of our life. You can not dismember your
soul. You are not a lumber-yard where materials displace each other as
they are carted in and out; you are a structure. You have your council
chamber where reason and conscience deliberate, and also the dark cells
where unholy desires lurk and lawless passions rage. (Text.)

    (3330)


   =Unity Broken=--See SEPARATION.


                      UNITY FUNDAMENTAL IN NATURE

As the glass reflects the face, so the creation reflects the qualities
of Him who made it. Among other attributes, It speaks of His unity.

   Notwithstanding the wide diversity that presents itself to our
   view in the countless varieties of living beings, it yet is
   true that all vegetable and animal tissues without exception,
   from that of the brightly colored lichen on the rock, to that
   of the painter who admires or of the botanist who dissects
   it, are essentially one in composition and in structure. The
   microscopic fungi clustering by millions within the body of a
   single fly, the giant pine of California towering to the height
   of a cathedral-spire, the Indian fig-tree covering acres with
   its profound shadow, animalcules minute enough to dance in
   myriads on the point of a needle, and the huge leviathan of the
   deep, the flower that a girl wears in her hair, and the blood
   that courses through her veins, are, each and all, smaller or
   larger multiples or aggregates of one and the same structural
   unit, and all therefore ultimately resolvable into the same
   identical elements. That unit is a corpuscle composed of oxygen,
   hydrogen, nitrogen, and carbon. Hydrogen, with oxygen, forms
   water; carbon, with oxygen, carbonic acid; and hydrogen, with
   nitrogen, ammonia. These three compounds--water, carbonic acid,
   and ammonia--in like manner, when combined form protoplasm.
   (Text.)

    (3331)


   =Unity of Christendom=--See CHURCH UNION.


   =Unity of Knowledge=--See KNOWLEDGE, UNITY OF.


                             UNITY OF LIFE

   I was greatly charmed last summer by a sight in the mountains
   of four stately chestnuts growing from one root. I loved to sit
   in the shadow first of one and then of another, and to watch
   them swaying in the wind and kissing each other through the
   interlacing branches. So I have thought it is with the drama,
   the finer arts, and music, and with religious aspirations--each
   separate in some sense from the other, and yet, down in the
   deepest, one, blossoming alike and bearing fruit, shooting up
   into the light together, and glorifying the land where they
   grow.--ROBERT COLLYER.

    (3332)


                            UNITY OF MATTER

Theism is gradually being reenforced by the discovery that apparently
diverse phenomena are really one.

   The division of bodies into gaseous, liquid, and solid, and
   the distinction established for the same substance between the
   three states, retain a great importance for the applications and
   usages of daily life, but have long since lost their absolute
   value from the scientific point of view.

   As far as concerns the liquid and gaseous states particularly,
   the already antiquated researches of Andrews confirmed the ideas
   of Cagniard de la Tour and established the continuity of the
   two states.--LUCIEN POINCARE, “The New Physics and Its
   Evolution.”

    (3333)


                             UNITY OF MIND

   Spirit and foot rule have nothing to do with each other. The
   same light comes out of a dew-drop that comes out of the
   sun. The smallest bird that trills its infinitesimal melody
   utters occasional notes that would blend with the voluminous
   progressions of the grandest oratorio, or that would even
   chime in with the anthem of the heavenly host praising God and
   singing, “Glory to God in the highest.” And as the little note
   of the bird fits the splendid symphony of the angel-choir,
   so thought is still thought everywhere, mind is mind in both
   worlds, the sea-shell yet hums the murmur of the sea whence it
   sprang, the younger star still moves in the orbit it learned
   while one with the parent star from which it was born, God and
   man think in the same vernacular, the Father and His children
   understand each other, the hills and the mountains are divine
   thoughts done in stone, and in the heavens the interpreting mind
   of man calmly fronts and steadily reads the meaning of God, and
   in the scintillant paragraphs of the star-dotted sky, with a
   divine genius, spells out thought that lay eternal in the great
   Mind before ever He said, “Let there be light.”--CHARLES H.
   WINTHROP PACKARD, “Wild Pastures.”

    (3334)


   =Unity of the Soul=--See SOUL A UNITY.


                          UNITY, STRENGTH IN

   These (cedar) roots so twine and intertwine that the original
   sap, drawn from the tender tips, must have nourished any one of
   several trees indifferently, for heart-wood joins heart-wood in
   scores of places near the stump and far from it, showing that
   each tree stood not only on its own roots, but on those of its
   neighbors all about it; not only was it nourished by its own
   rootlets, but by those of trees near by. No gale could uproot
   these swamp cedars. United they stood and divided they might not
   fall.--PARKHURST.

    (3335)


                            UNIVERSAL FACTS

   The religion of science will demand that a working faith shall
   have the universal note, rather than that which is local,
   temperamental or transient. All nature’s truths are universal
   truths. There are seven colors in the sunbeam--here, in Mars--in
   all worlds. The whole is equal to the sum of the parts, for
   Newton and Euclid and Moses. The laws of light and heat are the
   same in all zones. Psychology that can be taught in Yale or
   Harvard can be taught in Peking and Calcutta. A physiology with
   the story of the circulation of the blood in a white man can be
   studied in a college for brown men, and red men, and yellow men.
   The multiplication table is not American--it is for all men.
   The Ten Commandments are not Hebrew--they are for men who live
   and work and die, without regard to color, education or race.
   The master, therefore, whose music is to be a world music, must
   teach that which is universal, simple and democratic.--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (3336)


   =Unkindness=--See LOVE’S CAREFULNESS.


                           UNKNOWN REALITIES

   We can not tell why of two exactly similar bulbs put into
   precisely similar soil one should bloom out as a tulip and
   the other come up as an onion. We do not know how the flowers
   receive their color or perfume, nor why it is that while we can
   catch the shadow in the camera we can not imprison the color.
   There are many things, too, for which we have not been able to
   frame laws. We can not agree as to the cause of earthquakes, the
   origin of volcanic fires, or the birth-throes of the whirlwind.
   We do not even know our own origin, and the thinking world is
   divided between evolution and creation. We do not know even
   the normal color of man, whether we are bleached from the dark
   original, or whether the dark races are sunburnt editions of the
   early whites. Was the flood local or universal? Did Atlantis
   exist? Were there giants in those days? These are a few of the
   many questions that might be asked and remain unanswered.--San
   Francisco _Chronicle_.

    (3337)

   See IGNORANCE OF ORIGIN AND DESTINY.


                            UNKNOWN SAINTS

    With golden letters set in brave array
      Throughout the Church’s record of the year,
      The great names of historic saints appear,
    Those ringing names, that, as a trumpet, play
    Uplifting music o’er a sordid way,
      And sound high courage to our earth-dulled ear;
      But, underneath those strains, I seem to hear
    The silence of the saints that have no day.

    Martyrs blood-red, and trodden souls, care-gray,
      In hierarchal pride no place they boast;
    No candles born for them where pilgrims pray,
      No haloes crown their dim and countless host;
    And yet--the leaven of their humble sway,
      Unrecognized, unguessed, avails the most.

     (Text.)--KATHERINE PERRY, _The Reader_.

    (3338)


                             UNKNOWN, THE

It is unsafe to deny the existence of things merely because we can not
see them. Here is what Prof. Simon Newcomb says of invisible stars:

   The theories of modern science converge toward the view that,
   in the pure ether of space no single ray of light can ever be
   lost, no matter how far it may travel. During the last few years
   discoveries of dark, and therefore invisible, stars have been
   made by means of the spectroscope with a success which would
   have been quite incredible a very few years ago, and which even
   to-day must excite wonder and admiration. The general conclusion
   is that, besides the shining stars which exist in space, there
   may be any number of dark ones, forever invisible in our
   telescope.--_Harper’s Magazine._

    (3339)


                            UNKNOWN WORKERS

Edward Everett Hale pays this tribute to the pioneer:

    What was his name? I do not know his name;
    I only know he heard God’s voice and came;
      Brought all he loved across the sea,
      To live and work for God--and me;
        Felled the ungracious oak,
          Dragged from the soil,
          With torrid toil,
      Thrice-gnarled roots and stubborn rock,
    With plenty piled the haggard mountain-side,
    And at the end, without memorial died;
    No blaring trumpet sounded out his fame;
    He lived, he died; I do not know his name.

    No form of bronze and no memorial stones
    Show me the place where lies his moldering bones,
      Only a cheerful city stands,
      Built by his hardened hands;
        Only ten thousand homes
          Where every day
          The cheerful play
      Of love and hope and courage comes.
    These are his monuments, and these alone;
    There is no form of bronze and no memorial stone.

    (3340)


                         UNLOADING THE USELESS

   The burglar hesitated. Back of him was a sheer drop of
   twenty-five feet to the ground. In front of him was a determined
   woman, grasping in her hand a huge revolver. She covered him
   steadily.

   “I won’t shoot,” she said, “if you will remain still.”

   She advanced upon him and poking the muzzle of the gun in his
   face reached into his pocket and pulled out his revolver.

   “Come in.”

   The burglar obediently stept inside the room. All his courage
   was gone.

   “Sit down,” said the woman.

   He sat down.

   She got a huge ball of heavy cord from her bureau and spent the
   next twenty minutes in tying him up. Then she pointed out of the
   window.

   “Is that your wagon out there behind the barn?”

   “Yes, ma’am.”

   “Thought you would carry away my silver in it?”

   “Yes, ma’am.”

   The woman called her husband, who was hiding behind the baby’s
   crib in the next room.

   “Here, John,” she said, “take some of this furniture out.”

   John came in and got to work. The burglar watched with curious
   eyes. Suddenly his face blanched. He looked out of the window
   and saw in the light of the moon what John was carrying.

   “What are you doing to me?” he asked.

   The woman began cutting his cords.

   “I’m going to load you up with all of the old eyesores that
   we have had in the house for these many years,” she said,
   merrily--“all the furniture presented to us at Christmas
   by kind-hearted relatives, all the prizes we have taken at
   card-parties, all of the things we have bought at sales, all the
   family portraits--everything that we have been simply dying to
   get rid of.”--_Life._

    (3341)


                          UNNATURAL EDUCATION

President Butler, of Columbia University, made the following reference
to his friend, Dr. James H. Canfield, before the National Education
Association at Denver, in July, 1909:

   How patient he was with the typical errors of the pedagog,
   yet how fully he understood them! I remember a story that he
   told of himself when he was chancellor of the University of
   Nebraska. Toward the close of the college year a young tutor of
   mathematics who was completing his first year of service came
   into the chancellor’s office and asked whether he was to be
   reappointed for another year. The chancellor said: “Well, what
   do you yourself think of your work? What have you done that you
   are proud of?” The young tutor answered, “Mr. Chancellor, I have
   just held such a stiff examination in my course that I have
   flunked sixty members of the freshman class.” The chancellor
   looked at him kindly and said, “Young man, suppose I gave you a
   herd of one hundred cattle to drive to Kansas City, or Omaha,
   and you came in to tell me that you had driven them so fast and
   so hard, and had made such good time, that sixty per cent had
   died on the way. Do you think that I should want you to drive
   any more cattle to the Missouri River?” “No, sir,” said the
   tutor. “Well, I do not think we will let you drive any more
   freshmen.”

    (3342)


   =Unrestrained Religion=--See INADEQUACY OF NON-CHRISTIAN RELIGIONS.


                         UNREWARDED INVENTION

George Dawson, in his lecture on “Ill-used Men,” notes the shameful
neglect that befell the famous inventor of the spinning jenny that
revolutionized the textile industry:

   Poor Hargreaves died in a workhouse; his wife, a widow, sunk
   into that black mass of under-current which ever underruns the
   tide of England’s prosperity; and thus the man whose labors gave
   England the greatest wealth she ever possest, sunk into oblivion
   unrewarded.

    (3343)


   =Unseen Forces Trusted=--See TRUST IN GOD.


                       UNSEEN, RESPONSE FROM THE

   The materialist says: “Scientific history seeks the discovery of
   facts.” The Christian answers: “It is not so; scientific history
   seeks first the discovery of the forces which shape facts.” And
   the first wireless telegraphers conveying a message that saves
   the world were the apostles of Jesus Christ. After His ascension
   into the unseen from that wireless station named the upper
   room there went out the call C Q. (“This is the signal that
   something important has happened and that all other stations and
   vessels in the wireless zone must instantly stop sending and
   give attention. The next flash came C Q D. The added D meant
   danger, and the three letters together are a cry for help, a
   general ambulance call of the sea.”) And it was in response to
   the disciples’ call upon the invisible Christ there came rolling
   across the spiritual seas the ships of Pentecost. Those same
   wondrous vessels, thank God, are still pushing out from port in
   the unseen, not only to rescue, but to greaten and eternalize
   the life of every storm-lasht pilgrim! Truly, with a fresh and
   vivid power wireless ships publish the reality of the unseen.
   (Text.)--F. F. SHANNON.

    (3344)


                            UNSEEN RESULTS

   Dr. Buchanan, of Randolph-Macon College, tells of a lady who
   planted a rare rose-bush, worked around it, fertilized it,
   watered it, and yet saw no reward of her labors. But presently
   it was found that shoots from this bush had pushed through to
   the other side of the wall and were blooming in splendid beauty
   there. “Work on, undiscovered ones,” he says. “In the unseen
   world you may find your unseen roses in full bloom, scenting the
   air with fragrance.” (Text.)

    (3345)


                             UNSELFISHNESS

   There was a party of twenty-five boys and girls going upon a
   picnic, and when about to get into the carry-all which was to
   convey them to the picnic grounds, it was found that, with
   the utmost crowding there was room for only twenty-four, and
   one little girl was left standing on the ground, and was to
   be left behind. The disappointment was too great for her to
   control her feelings, and the tears began to fall, when one of
   her companions, named Alice, jumped out and said, “Don’t cry,
   Sadie; you get in and take my place; I have been many times,
   and do not care so very much.” The children had a very happy
   afternoon, but what do you suppose they thought and said about
   Alice?--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (3346)

       *       *       *       *       *

This helpful poem is from _The Outlook_:

    I thank thee, Lord, for strength of arm
      To win my bread,
    And that beyond my need is meat
      For friend unfed.
    I thank thee much for bread to live,
    I thank thee more for bread to give.

    I thank thee, Lord, for snug-thatched roof
      In cold and storm,
    And that beyond my need is room
      For friend forlorn.
    I thank thee much for place to rest,
    But more for shelter for my guest.

    I thank thee, Lord, for lavish love
      On me bestowed,
    Enough to share with loveless folk
      To ease their load.
    Thy love to me I ill could spare,
    Yet dearer is thy love I share. (Text.)

    (3347)

   See PATRIOTISM, DISINTERESTED; SELF-FORGETTING.


                      UNSELFISHNESS, EXAMPLES OF

   When Peter Cooper, who founded the Cooper Institute, New
   York, had completed his apprenticeship, his employer esteemed
   him so much that he offered to give him the capital to start
   in business, but Cooper refused because of his invincible
   repugnance to debt. At the end of three years he had saved up
   $500, but his father being prest with debt, young Cooper gave
   the entire amount for his relief. He purchased a glue factory
   and soon obtained the reputation of making the best glue in the
   country. He became interested in many successful enterprises,
   employing thousands of men, and conceived the idea of an
   educational institute for the advancement of the sciences.
   Abram S. Hewitt, with a son of Peter Cooper, took over the
   father’s iron business, and at one time over 3,000 men were
   employed, and for six years they ran the business at a loss of
   over $100,000 a year rather than bring upon their employes the
   distress incident to shutting down the plant. Partly for this
   reason the business was run for forty years with only sufficient
   profit to pay the men, and still by judicious foresight in
   buying iron the firm cleared over $1,000,000 in one year. Their
   policy toward their workmen was always to take them into their
   confidence.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (3348)


                        UNSELFISHNESS IN BIRDS

   Sidney Lanier tells of a mocking-bird six weeks of age being
   kept in a cage with another young bird who was so ill he could
   hardly move. One day food happened to be delayed in coming,
   and Bob got furiously hungry. He called and screamed and made
   a great row. At last it appeared, and he took in his beak the
   ball of egg and potato, snatching it out of the hand, and then,
   instead of eating it, ran across the cage and gave the whole of
   it to his sick friend.--OLIVE THORNE MILLER, “The Bird
   Our Brother.”

    (3349)


                        UNSELFISHNESS, POWER OF

The way in which an unselfish example can inspire a like desire in
others is seen in this incident:

   We two students roomed over on the north side of the building
   where the sun never entered, and we were often chilled to
   discomfort and we would not stand it longer. The bishop beamed
   upon us with benevolent surprize, and said:

   “Why, young gentlemen, this will never do; you are not going
   to leave the school. True, our mission is slow in providing
   better accommodations, but they will come soon. Meanwhile, we
   are bound to do the best we can for our students. We expect you
   young men in the future to become the bishops and leaders in the
   Japanese churches. As for yourselves in particular, I’ll tell
   you what we can do. I have a good warm room on the sunny side
   of the school; now you young gentlemen come over and occupy my
   room and I myself will go over and take yours.” “Oh, no!” we
   both exclaimed; “we would not have you do that; we did not mean
   that.” “But that’s what I mean,” said the bishop; “that’s what
   will be done.” We again remonstrated and my fellow student, a
   Christian boy, began to weep with chagrin and brokenness of
   heart, and soon I found I, too, was weeping. I never before
   had seen anything like that and my heart broke under it. Why,
   sir, there was a light in that good bishop’s face similar to
   that which I think Saul saw on the way to Damascus.--H. C.
   MABIE, “Methods in Evangelism.”

    (3350)


   =Unsympathetic=--See SYMPATHY, LACK OF.


                            UNTRUTHFULNESS

   Dr. Edward Everett Hale said that once he dreamed of playing
   ball with a companion, and of throwing the ball through a large
   glass window, and that the owner of the house came out and
   asked him if he threw the ball, and he said, “No.” Then the man
   pounced upon his companion, saying, “Then it must have been
   you,” and dragged him into the house and gave him a tremendous
   whipping. Dr. Hale said he experienced a feeling of meanness
   and degradation that was inexpressible; he felt himself to be
   the most cowardly wretch on the face of the earth, and had not
   a single word to say in his own defense. He stood ashamed of
   himself before his own conscience. He said the impression was
   so vivid that he never got over the remembrance, and through
   life was given a loathing and abhorrence of all forms of
   deceit.--JAMES T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (3351)


                             UNWORTHY AIMS

   When asked by a friend how he managed to wear always such
   becoming and elaborate cravats a British dude is said to have
   answered, “Why, my dear fellah, I puts my whole mind on it.”
   Such an answer is the measure of such a man’s mind. The aim was
   wholly unworthy of the attention given to it.

    (3352)


   =Unwritten Law Waived=--See DEVOTION TO THE HELPLESS.


   =Upper Worlds=--See EVIL, PURGING FROM.


                              UPRIGHTNESS

   Confucius, wishing once to give a lesson of supreme value in
   politics, pointed one of his pupils to a lofty obelisk and
   said: “Seest thou yonder tall object? In its uprightness is its
   strength.” (Text.)

    (3353)


   =Upward=--See ASPIRATION.


                              UPWARD LOOK

   A story is told by the Rev. Silvester Horne of a college
   professor who often told in the class-room of thoughts that
   had come to him in the garden. The thoughts were often so
   beautiful, and opened up such vistas to the imagination, that
   the students, none of whom had visited the professor at his
   home, pictured the garden a very Eden--spacious, and a glory of
   trees and flowers. One day two of the students made a pretext
   to visit the professor and get a glimpse, if possible, of the
   garden. They were received and taken into the garden, which, to
   their surprize, they found was the narrowest strip shut in by
   high brick walls. “But, professor,” they said in their pained
   disillusion, “surely this is not the garden you are always
   talking about, in which such fine thoughts come to you?” “Oh,
   yes, it is,” he said with a smile. “But it is so small. We had
   imagined quite a large garden.” “But,” replied the professor,
   pointing to the clear sky studded with stars, “see how high it
   is!”

    (3354)

       *       *       *       *       *

The solar look is not only indicative of a desire in the individual to
aspire to great and noble attainments for himself, it is sure to lead
him to point out the upward pathway of the soul to others. Aspiration
is an inspiration to altruism.

   One of the most beautiful works of the celebrated artist in
   terra-cotta, George Tinworth, is his alto-rilievo of C. H.
   Spurgeon representing the great preacher surrounded by the
   children of Stockwell Orphanage, which he founded. Mr. Spurgeon
   with a heavenly smile is pointing to the skies and the children
   are gazing upward as he points. This statue is a vivid contrast
   to the one which stands in a square in Northampton, the monument
   to that pronounced infidel, Charles Bradlaugh, the “English
   Ingersoll.” The statue represents Bradlaugh addressing the
   people, but he is pointing directly downward. (Text.)

    (3355)

       *       *       *       *       *

Are not most of life’s fears due to the fact that we do not consider
enough what is above us? The remedy is to look up.

   When a goose goes under an arch she ducks her head; that is not
   because there is not space for her, but because she thinks there
   is not, and that is because she is a goose. Perhaps she does not
   see very clearly what is above her.--BOLTON HALL, “A
   Little Land and a Living.”

    (3356)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Francois de Bonnivard, whom Byron has immortalized in his
   “Prisoner of Chillon,” was for many years immured in the dungeon
   of the castle of Chillon, which lay below the level of Lake
   Geneva, but from which he could hear the sound of the water
   constantly. One day a bird came and sang at his window the
   sweetest carol he ever heard. The music awakened within him an
   inexpressible longing for a look at the outer and upper world,
   all so free and bright to that bird. Digging a foothold in the
   dungeon wall he climbed to the little window, from which he saw
   the mountains of his beloved Switzerland, unchanged, capped with
   eternal snow, and that upward look gave him new patience and
   hope. (Text.)

    (3357)


   =Usage Rejected=--See EXPERIENCE A HARD TEACHER.


   =Usefulness=--See SERVICE.


                    USEFULNESS PLUS MORE USEFULNESS

   A young man who had worked up to the position of confidential
   clerk, became jealous of a new clerk, to whom his employer had
   just given a raise in salary exceeding his own. He went to his
   employer and said: “Are you not satisfied with my work and my
   faithfulness?” “Oh, yes,” was the reply. “Why, then, do you
   give this new man more salary than to me?” Instead of replying
   to the question, the merchant, who was a grain dealer, said:
   “Do you see that load of grain going by? Run out, and see to
   whom it is going.” The confidential man returned, and said it
   was going to Wilson’s place. “Run out and find out what they
   got for the grain.” He returned and said eighty-five cents per
   bushel. “Run and find out if Wilson wants any more.” He returned
   and said: “Yes, he wants another carload.” At this moment the
   new clerk came in, and the grain merchant repeated to him his
   first instruction: “Run out and see where that load of grain is
   going.” In a few minutes the new clerk returned and said: “The
   grain is going to Wilson’s; they are paying eighty-five cents
   per bushel, and want another carload.” The merchant, turning
   to the confidential man, said: “You have your answer. It took
   you three trips to find out what this man learned in one.” The
   new clerk had wit enough to know that the merchant did not care
   about where the grain was going, but if there was a probability
   of supplying some of the demand, and upon what terms.--JAMES
   T. WHITE, “Character Lessons.”

    (3358)


                       USEFULNESS VERSUS DISPLAY

   One of these little flitting society girls, compared to a
   substantial Christian girl, reminds me of a butterfly compared
   to a honey-bee. The butterfly flits here and there with its
   beautiful color, and nobody ever knows what it’s for or where
   it goes. The honey-bee flies from flower to flower, lighting
   with a velvet tread upon each blossom, extracting its sweetness
   without marring its beauty, and lays up honey to bless the
   world.--“Famous Stories of Sam P. Jones.”

    (3359)


                             USELESS LABOR

If all the efforts wasted on such tasks as that described below were
put into useful and constructive work, the world’s wealth would be far
more rapidly increased.

   Mr. William L. Stuart, a young man engaged in business in New
   York City, has performed the seemingly impossible feat of
   engraving the entire Lord’s Prayer on the head of an ordinary
   pin, to which he has added his name and the year, making
   altogether two hundred and seventy-six letters and figures.

   Mr. Stuart did the work at odd times during his regular
   employment and with very ordinary tools, which seemingly are
   not adapted to such fine engraving. The pin was set in a block
   of wood, and a common engraver’s tool was used. A simple
   microscope, costing only about twenty-five cents, and known as
   a “linen tester,” furnished the necessary magnifying.

    (3360)


                          USELESS STRUCTURES

Science speaks of useless physiological structures, as when we read in
“The Descent of Man”:

   Man, as well as every other animal, presents structures which,
   as far as we can judge with our little knowledge, are not now of
   any service to him, nor have been so during any former period
   of his existence, either in relation to his general condition
   of life, or of one sex to the other. Such structures can not
   be accounted for by any form of selection, or by the inherited
   effects of the use and disuse of parts.

Useless structures are not discerned alone by science. History and
experience, in the large field of life, have seen them many times. The
efforts of man have often reclaimed “useless structures.”

    (3361)


                           USURY IN OLD DAYS

   Our Pilgrims were few and poor. The whole outfit of this
   historic voyage, including £1,700 of trading stock, was only
   £2,400, and how little was required for their succor appears
   in the experience of the soldier, Captain Miles Standish,
   who, being sent to England for assistance--not military, but
   financial--(God save the mark!)--succeeded in borrowing--how
   much do you suppose?--£150 sterling. Something in the way of
   help; and the historian adds, “tho at fifty per cent interest.”
   So much for a valiant soldier on a financial expedition. A later
   agent, Allerton, was able to borrow for the colony £200 at a
   reduced interest of thirty per cent. Plainly, the money-sharks
   of our day may trace an undoubted pedigree to these London
   merchants.--CHARLES SUMNER.

    (3362)


                                UTILITY

Many men decide values as Russell Sage did in this incident from _The
Saturday Evening Post_, which illustrates the thrift which has
always been present in all transactions made by Russell Sage:

   A prominent New York financier says that recently, while on a
   tour of inspection over the Missouri Pacific system, President
   Gould took great pride in pointing out to Russell Sage the late
   improvements in equipment, and various new and ingenious devices
   and attachments. Among the latter Mr. Gould was especially
   pleased to show to Mr. Sage a certain device by which there
   is registered the speed of a train. The device in question
   resembled a steam-gage, and was connected with an axle, so that
   the pointer registered the number of revolutions every minute.

   Mr. Sage examined the device with great interest. Then, after a
   moment’s pause, he looked up at Mr. Gould, and asked with great
   solemnity, “Does it earn anything?” “No, I think not,” answered
   the president. “Does it save anything?” “No.” “Then,” concluded
   Mr. Sage decidedly, “I would not have it on my car!”

    (3363)

   See CURRENTS, UTILIZING.


                     UTILITY AS THEISTIC EVIDENCE

Man reasons from himself to the great cause of things. That which is
true of man may be true of God.

   A prospect-glass or a forceps is an instrument; they have each
   a final cause; that is, they were each made and adjusted for a
   certain use. The use of the prospect-glass is to assist the eye;
   the use of the forceps is to assist the hand. The prospect-glass
   was made the better to see; the forceps, the better to grasp.
   The use did not make these instruments; they were each made for
   the use--which use was foreseen and premeditated in the mind of
   the maker of them. We say of each of them without a shadow of
   hesitation: If this had not first been a thought, it could never
   have been a thing.

    (3364)


                            UTILITY, DIVINE

Preaching, like every other thing that God permits or ordains, can
not be limited by human regulations. Rev. W. H. Fitchett says of John
Wesley:

   John Wesley heard at Bristol that his helper, Maxfield, had
   crossed the mystic border-line which separates an exhortation
   from a sermon, and the story has already been told of how Wesley
   rode post-haste to London to trample out the first sparks of
   what might prove to be a conflagration. His mother’s calm eyes
   and quiet speech arrested him. She made the one appeal which, to
   Wesley’s reason and conscience alike, was irresistible. This
   new and alarming phenomenon must, after all, be judged by the
   question: “Does God use it?”--“Wesley and His Century.”

    (3365)


                              UTILIZATION

   Darwin made the great experiments which have changed the whole
   aspect of natural history, with the common glasses of his house,
   and the common flower-pots in his garden.

   There is a legend of an artist who sought long for a piece of
   sandalwood out of which to carve a Madonna. He was about to
   give up the search when in a dream he was bidden to shape the
   figure from a block of oak-wood which was destined for the fire.
   Obeying the command, he produced from the log of common firewood
   a masterpiece.--HUGH MACMILLAN.

    (3366)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Not so long ago there arrived at a Pacific port a ship from
   Belfast, Ireland, after a voyage that was in one respect
   remarkable. It appears that this vessel’s ballast consisted of
   about 2,000 tons of Irish soil. This, when leveled off, made a
   pretty good-sized garden patch, and the members of the crew,
   with commendable thrift, took it into their heads to improve it.

   They planted a good stock of garden truck--cabbages, leeks,
   turnips, radishes, peas, beans, lettuce and other things. These
   came up in due course, and flourished admirably, especially
   while the ship was in the tropics, and the men had fresh “garden
   sass” to their hearts’ content.

   As they rounded Cape Horn they replanted the garden, and by the
   time they reached the equator everything was again green and the
   table well supplied.

   The two drawbacks were the weeds, which grew apace, and the
   inroads of the ship’s drove of pigs, which were kept in the
   “farm-yard attachment,” and which, on several occasions, when
   the ship was rolling heavily, broke out of bounds and, of
   course, did their best to obtain their share of the garden truck.

   The last pig was killed and served with green vegetables just
   before the vessel entered the port on the Pacific. On the
   arrival of the ship the sod was taken to its destination,
   ready to be used again for terrestrial gardening.--_Harper’s
   Weekly._

    (3367)

       *       *       *       *       *

A public sentiment that fluctuates irregularly can be as little
depended upon in making progress as the sun’s energy noted in the
following:

   The energy falling upon an ordinary city lot should run
   continuously a hundred-horse-power plant. If all the coal
   deposits in Pennsylvania were burned in one second, they
   would not produce as much power as the sun furnishes us in
   the same time. The difficulty in the practical utilization
   of the solar energy lies in its extreme variability. In the
   morning and afternoon, when the sun is low in the heavens,
   but a small amount of energy reaches the surface, and even at
   noon a passing cloud will absorb the greater part of the solar
   radiation.--CHARLES LANE POOR, “The Solar System.”

    (3368)


                       UTILIZATION OF RESOURCES

A writer on the coal areas of the nation says:

   A good geologist, Baron von Richthofen, has reported that he
   has found a coal-field in the province of Hunau covering an
   area of 21,700 square miles, which is nearly double the British
   coal area of 12,000 square miles. In the province of Shansi,
   the baron discovered nearly 30,000 square miles of coal, with
   unrivaled facilities for mining. But all these vast coal-fields,
   capable of supplying the whole world for some thousands of years
   to come, are lying unworked.

   If “the course of manufacturing supremacy of wealth and of
   power” were directed by coal, then China, which possesses 33.3
   times more of this directive force than Great Britain, and had
   so early a start in life, should be the supreme summit of the
   industrial world. If this solid hydrocarbon “raises up one
   people and casts down another,” the Chinaman should be raised
   thirty-three times and three-tenths higher than the Englishman;
   if it “makes railways on land and paths on the sea,” the Chinese
   railways should be 33.3 times longer than ours, and the tonnage
   of their mercantile marine 33.3 times greater.

China is thus shown to be, potentially, the wealthiest coal-bearing
country in the world. Actually, she is one of the poorest. The
difference lies in her lack of utilization of that which is hers. So
many a man fails of the best results. He possesses untold wealth, but
he is morally and spiritually poverty-stricken because he fails to work
the moral and spiritual deposit.

    (3369)


                           UTILIZING SEAWEED

   Owing to the formation of the coast, seaweed is present in great
   quantities along the shores of Prince Edward Island, in the
   Gulf of St. Lawrence. The high tide leaves a long stretch of
   territory between high and low water mark, where it grows. As a
   fodder it is eaten by oxen, sheep, and deer in winter, and when
   boiled with a small quantity of meal added it makes a desirable
   food for hogs.

   From seaweed, when reduced to ashes, are gained some of the most
   beneficent preparations in use to-day. Some of these are iodin,
   bromin, hydriodic acid, iodides of sodium, mercury, potassium,
   magnesium, and calcium. From it are extracted coloring matters,
   volatile oil, and its ingredients are used in photography. It
   is further employed as coverings for flasks, in the packing of
   glass, china, and other brittle wares, for packing furniture,
   stuffing pillows and mattresses, and in upholstering. The claim
   is made that furniture stuffed with seaweed is kept free of
   moths and other insects, owing to its salty flavor.

   This weed is one of the best non-conductors of heat and finds
   use in thermotics, especially in the insulation of refrigerators
   and in refrigerating plants. It is also used between walls and
   floors to prevent the transmission of sound.

   As the demand for this article is getting more active, large
   quantities are being gathered by farmers and fishermen along the
   shores of Prince Edward Island, dried, and prepared for shipment
   to the United States. (Text.)--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (3370)


                            UTILIZING SEED

   “There isn’t one man in ten thousand who has the remotest
   idea of the vast number of uses to which the once despised
   cotton-seed is now being put,” said Captain B. J. Holmes, of New
   Orleans.

   “From the clean seed are obtained linters and meats and
   hulls, the hulls making the best and most fattening feed for
   cattle that has yet been found. From the linters are gathered
   material for mattresses, felt wads, papers, rope, and a grade
   of underwear, and likewise cellulose, out of which gun-cotton
   is made. The meats furnish oil and meal, the oil after refining
   being now in almost universal use in the kitchens of this and
   other countries. Before refinement to the edible stage, the
   oil is known under many names, such as salad-oil, stearine,
   winter-oil and white-oil, oleomargarine being the product of
   stearine. The white-oil is the chief ingredient in compound
   lards. The original oil, also known as soap stock, has fatty
   acids used in the manufacture of soaps, roofing-tar, paints and
   glycerine, and from this comes the explosive nitroglycerine.
   I might also add that the meal, aside from its use as cattle
   provender, is transformed into bread, cake, crackers and even
   candy. Last of all come the doctors, who are saying that this
   wonderful seed is a boon to the sick, since from its oils an
   emulsion is prepared that has been known to be of value in
   tuberculosis and other ailments.”--Baltimore _American_.

    (3371)


   =Utilizing Soap-suds=--See SAGACITY SUPPLEMENTING SCIENCE.


   =Utilizing Spider Threads=--See NATURE AIDING SCIENCE.


   =Utilizing the Best We Have=--See CONSERVATION OF REMAINDERS.


                               UTTERANCE

   Criminals, even those hardened beings who, ordinarily, laugh
   at everything, and show but little trace of what we call
   conscience, rarely keep their secret. It seems to burn them.
   They chalk it on the walls, and they betray it in their dreams.
   Their security depends upon their silence, and this silence they
   can not keep. At every moment their speech skirts the terrible
   mystery, and takes on a hollow sound which recalls that of steps
   upon tunneled earth. One guesses a gulf even when he does not
   see it. Revelation is more than a need; it is a necessity. It
   takes place sometimes in spite of ourselves and against our
   will. (Text.)--CHARLES WAGNER, “The Gospel of Life.”

    (3372)




                                   V


   =Vacation Philosophy=--See ROUTINE.


   =Vacuity=--See ORATORY; SOCIAL VANITY.


   =Valuation, Extravagant=--See MYSTERY, VALUE OF.


                           VALUE IN RUBBISH

   The rubbish of New York City is worth about $200,000 a year.
   The city gathers and carries its rubbish to the scows at the
   river-front. Then a contractor trims the scows and disposes of
   the litter. This operation costs him about $3,000 a week, or
   $500 each working day. For the privilege of handling the stuff,
   and winnowing it for goodly finds, the contractor, Celesto Di
   Maico, pays $1,750 a week, or $90,000 a year, to the city. This
   is $25,000 more than the previous contracts.--_Collier’s
   Weekly._

    (3373)


                           VALUE OF ONE MAN

Of Thomas A. Edison, the inventor, _The Episcopal Recorder_ says:

   In these days, when every millionaire comes in for his share of
   just or unjust criticism, it is refreshing to read the kindly
   comments made on Thomas A. Edison and his work. Mr. Edison is
   an enormously wealthy man, but strange to say, we seldom think
   of Edison and millions in the same moment. The enormous force
   generated by this brilliant man is seen in the fact that his
   inventions and those which he has materially assisted have given
   existence to industries capitalized at more than $7,000,000,000,
   and earning annually more than $1,000,000,000, while they find
   employment for half a million people. Even these stupendous
   figures do not cover the facts, for no figures can begin to
   indicate the value of the service Mr. Edison’s inventions have
   rendered to mankind. If we could take out of every-day life
   those things that owe their existence to his genius, there would
   be quite a conspicuous gap, and Mr. Edison has not finished yet.
   The impress of this quiet man of sixty-three is possibly one of
   the greatest ever made by any one. Certainly his conquests of
   peace far surpass all the conquests of war.

    (3374)


   =Value Recognized=--See GENIUS CAN NOT BE HIDDEN.


                         VALUE THROUGH CHRIST

   A class of medical students were being taken through the wards
   of a hospital. Their professor was showing them some strange
   case--a man who was a mere wreck, lying upon his bed hopeless
   and helpless, a broken fragment of humanity, a man who had
   spoiled his chances, sold his soul and body. The professor said
   in Latin, _Fiat experimentum in corpore vili_, “Let the
   experiment be made upon a worthless body.” But the man was an
   old university man, and before the days of his crash, he, too,
   knew Latin. He arose in his bed and answered back, _Pro hoc
   corpore vili Jesus Christus mortuus est_, “For this worthless
   body Jesus Christ has died.” And from every broken bit of the
   wreckage of humanity, and from every bit of your own soul’s life
   that is wrecked and broken, comes the same response to-day.
   God knows that for this worthless body Jesus Christ is on His
   cross still waiting to see of the travail of His soul.--JOHN
   KELMAN.

    (3375)


                                VALUES

Charles Wagner, in “The Gospel of Life,” points a conclusion worth
considering:

   In finance, a figure is a figure. Two equal numbers have the
   same value, and a hundred dollars are twice fifty and twenty
   times as much as five dollars. But when intentions are involved,
   it is another matter; then the value of the figures depends no
   longer upon their size. This is what Jesus causes us to observe.
   Beware of neglecting the little pennies; there are pennies that
   are poems, there are pennies that have a soul.

    (3376)


                          VALUES IN QUESTION

   Money talks just as loudly in the realm of music as anywhere
   else. The despised violin, which merely is an incumbrance when
   it is thought to be worth not more than $10, becomes the chief
   ornament of the household when an expert says it is worth not
   less than $1,000. In Chicago there is a business man who owns
   a violin. He inherited it from his father, who was a musician.
   The business man does not play. One of his friends is a lover
   of violin music. That friend often had told the business man
   the violin was a good one, and that he ought to treasure it.
   The business man regarded the advice as that of an enthusiast.
   One day the argument became so warm the friend insisted that
   the question be settled at once by carrying the instrument to a
   professor of music, who is admittedly an authority on violins.

   “Why, I wouldn’t carry that violin through the street for
   anything,” the business man said. “My friends would think I had
   gone music mad in my old age.”

   “I’ll carry it,” his friend said quickly. “I’m not ashamed to
   carry a violin anywhere. Come along.”

   They went. The professor was at home. The back and the belly,
   the neck and the bridge, the tail-piece and the sounding-post,
   all passed beneath his critical eye. “It looks all right,” the
   professor said. From the case he drew the bow and ran the hair
   several times across the cake of rosin. Then, striking A on a
   near-by piano, he proceeded to tune the instrument which for so
   many years had been held in so light esteem by its owner. After
   the violin was in tune he tested it, string by string, chord by
   chord, and harmonic by harmonic, in all positions. Then he began
   to play. The fulness, the richness and sweetness of the tone
   appealed even to the matter-of-fact business man.

   “It is a genuine old Italian instrument, and I’ll give you
   $1,000 for it,” the professor said. The business man gasped.

   “I’ll tell you frankly, it is worth more than that, but that is
   all I can afford to pay,” the professor continued.

   “I can’t think of selling it,” the business man replied, with a
   halt in his speech. “You see, it came to me from my father. It
   is an heirloom. I thank you, however, for the test you have made
   and the good opinion you have exprest.”

   The two men started away from the home of the professor, the
   business man carrying the violin.

   “Let me take it,” his musical friend said. “You might meet some
   one you know.”

   “I’ll carry it,” the business man retorted. “I don’t care how
   many friends I meet. And, besides, you might drop it.”--Chicago
   _Inter-Ocean_.

    (3377)


   =Values Rated=--See DISCRIMINATION, UNFAIR.


   =Values, Spiritual=--See SPIRITUAL VALUES.


                          VALUES, STANDARD OF

   When Tucker, Dean of Gloucester, asserted in the presence of Sir
   Joshua Reynolds that a pin-maker was more valuable to society
   than a Raphael, that ardent lover of his profession replied with
   some asperity: “That is an observation of a very narrow mind, a
   mind that is confined to the mere object of commerce. Commerce
   is the means, not the end of happiness. The end is a rational
   enjoyment by means of art and sciences. It is, therefore, the
   highest degree of folly to set the means in a higher rank
   of esteem than the end. It is as much as to say that the
   brick-maker is superior to the architect.”

    (3378)


                               VANDALISM

   In Egypt, travelers tell us about the destruction of palaces by
   vandals and Huns. The greatest architects and artists the world
   has ever known toiled upon the palace, and made it as perfect
   as a red rose; then came along these vandals--they ripped out
   carvings of angels and seraphs, that held a beauty that would
   pierce an artist’s heart, and with these carvings boiled their
   kettles. They pulled down the statues of Phidias and burned them
   into lime. They took the very stones of a palace and built them
   into hundreds of mean and squalid hovels. Soon where had been a
   structure for the gods, there stood hovels unfit for beasts.

In the same way many men treat the precious things of life and religion.

    (3379)


                                VANITY

The fate of the soap-bubble is a lesson put into rime by Katherine Pyle:

    “I am little,” the soap-bubble said, “just now;
      Oh, yes, I am small, I know”;
    (This is what it said to the penny pipe);
      “But watch and see me grow.

    “Now, look! and reflected in me you’ll see
      The windows, the chairs and door.
    I’m a whole little world; did you ever know
      Such a wonderful thing before?

    “And only look at my colors bright,
      Crimson and green and blue,
    You could hardly hope such a lovely thing
      Would ever stay here with you.

    “And I feel so light!” the bubble cried;
      “I’m going now; good-by!
    I shall float and float away from here,
      Out under the shining sky.

    “I shall float--” But puff! the bubble broke.
      The pipe near the nursery floor
    Never looked nor spoke, but went on with its work,
      And blew a great many more.

    (3380)

   See MARKS, COVERING.


                          VANITY, BLASPHEMOUS

   Ethan Allen, the hero of Ticonderoga, was once listening in
   church to the Rev. Jedediah Dewey, the ancester of Admiral Dewey
   of Manila fame, who was offering prayer in which he was giving
   God thanks for the victory of the American arms at the battle of
   Bennington, when Ethan Allen chafed under the devout preacher’s
   neglect of his part in the conflict and success. Rising in his
   pew in the midst of the prayer, he said, “Parson Dewey, Parson
   Dewey!” The parson stopt and opened his eyes to see the source
   of the interruption, when Ethan Allen added, “Please mention to
   the Lord about my being there.” “Sit down, thou blasphemer,”
   thundered Mr. Dewey, “and listen to the praises of the God of
   battles.”

    (3381)


                            VANITY IN DEATH

According to a recent magazine writer, Ann Oldfield, who once took
“London by storm,” “being much caressed in the houses of great people
and received in friendly terms at court,” is now chiefly recalled as
an actress who, when dying, was concerned most with the “becomingness
of the burial robe” in which she lay in state indeed in the Jerusalem
chamber of Westminster Abbey, in the vaults of which she was entombed.

    “Odious in woollen ’twould a saint provoke,
    (Were the last words that poor Narcissa spoke.)
    No, let a charming chintz and Brussels lace
    Wrap my cold limbs and shade my lifeless face.
    One would not, sure, be frightful when one’s dead,
    And, Betty, give this cheek a little red!”
    (Text.)

    (3382)


   =Variation=--See FREEDOM THROUGH DRILL.


                               VERBIAGE

Certainly lawyers can not rail at theologians for adhesion to
traditional forms.

   An author who inveighed against the practise of lawyers drawing
   long deeds and settlements, thus satirized it: “If a man were
   to give to another an orange he would merely say, ‘I give you
   this orange’; but when the transaction is entrusted to the
   hands of a lawyer to put it in writing, he adopts this form, ‘I
   hereby give, grant and convey to you all and singular my estate
   and interest, right, title, claim and advantage of and in the
   said orange, together with all its rind, skin, juice, pulp,
   and pips, and all right and advantage therein, with full power
   to bite, cut, suck, and otherwise eat the same, or give the
   same away as fully and effectually as I, the said A B, am now
   entitled to bite, cut, suck, or otherwise eat the same orange,
   or give the same away, with or without its rind, skin, juice,
   pulp, and pips, anything hereinbefore or hereinafter, or in any
   other deed or deeds, instrument or instruments, of what nature
   or kind soever to the contrary in anywise notwithstanding.’”
   (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

    (3383)


                              VERSATILITY

The following anecdote is told of Cyrus Hamlin, a lifelong missionary
in Turkey and the chief founder of Robert College in Constantinople:

   One day at Bowdoin, Professor Smith delivered a lecture on the
   steam-engine to Hamlin’s class, not one of whom, perhaps, had
   ever seen a steam-engine. Those were the days of the stage-coach
   and the ox-team. After the lecture he said to Professor Smith,
   “I believe I could make an engine.” The professor replied,
   “I think you can make anything you undertake, Hamlin, and I
   wish you would try.” He did try, and succeeded. By working
   twelve and sometimes fifteen hours each day, he built a
   steam-engine sufficiently large to be of real service as a part
   of the philosophical apparatus of the college.--_Youth’s
   Companion._

    (3384)


   =Versatility Required=--See DETAILS, PERIL OF.


                         VERSION, HIS MOTHER’S

   A Bible-class teacher was telling of the various translations of
   the Bible and their different excellences. The class was much
   interested, and one of the young men that evening was talking to
   a friend about it.

   “I think I prefer the King James version for my part,” he said,
   “tho, of course, the Revised is more scholarly.”

   His friend smiled. “I prefer my mother’s translation of the
   Bible myself to any other version,” he said.

   “Your mother’s?” cried the first young man, thinking his
   companion had suddenly gone crazy. “What do you mean, Fred?”

   “I mean that my mother has translated the Bible into the
   language of daily life for me ever since I was old enough to
   understand it. She translates it straight, too, and gives its
   full meaning. There has never been any obscurity about her
   version. Whatever printed version of the Bible I may study, my
   mother’s is always the one that clears up my difficulties.”

    (3385)


   =Vessels=--See CONDEMNED, THE.


                               VIBRATION

The jar and discord of life may often be modified by balancing one
discord against another or by changing the rate of effort. Sometimes
to go faster in one direction or slower in another brings harmony and
peace.

   It is rather interesting to call attention to the recent
   improvement in the running conditions of the steamship
   _Mauretania_, which, it will be remembered, is driven by
   four steam turbines, and which recently damaged one of her
   propellers. While repairing the latter, advantage was taken of
   the opportunity to change the propeller-blades a little, and it
   is said the change reduced very appreciably the vibration of the
   vessel. It seems that there was more or less resonance between
   the vibration caused by the propeller-blades and the speed at
   which they were driven; so by throwing the two out of harmony,
   the effect is damped out. Doubtless similar conditions exist
   elsewhere and frequently are the cause of the entire trouble due
   to vibration, and by some slight change, throwing the apparatus
   or its support out of tune, the effect is removed.--_The
   Electrical Review._

    (3386)

   See COMMUNICATION, PSYCHICAL.


                          VICARIOUS SACRIFICE

Dr. Turner, in his book on the Samoan Islands, tells the following
incident:

   The people were cannibals, the King, Mahetoa, leading in the
   horrible practise. His young son, Polu, hated the heathenish and
   brutal custom, and one day, when he saw a poor boy waiting to
   be killed and served as a tender morsel for the King’s dinner,
   he was touched with pity and said, “Don’t cry; I will try and
   save you.” So he drest himself in coconut leaves and had himself
   served just as tho he had been killed and roasted whole. The
   King came to the table, and looked down at the cannibal dish,
   saw two bright eyes looking up at him. He recognized his son,
   and the thought flashed through his heathen mind, “What if it
   were, indeed, my dear son, whose body had been cooked for my
   meal!” He was touched, too, by the magnanimity of his boy,
   taking the other lad’s place, and he abolished cannibalism by
   law from his kingdom from that day. (Text.)

    (3387)


                    VICARIOUS SALVATION IMPOSSIBLE

   There was a man who dreamed that he died and, seeking admission
   to paradise, was refused. He attempted to excuse his lack of
   religious faith and fidelity by the old pretext that, while he
   looked after worldly affairs, his wife went to church for both.
   “Well,” said the gatekeeper, “she has gone in for both!”

    (3388)


   =Vicarious Sight=--See FRATERNITY.


                             VICARIOUSNESS

   There are men who reap consequences without having the
   advantages of the causes that brought them about. For instance,
   it takes the gout a good long time to grow in a family, but it
   does grow, and it often grows from a good cellar of port in the
   possession of an ancestor. Now, what I think hard is that a man
   should have the port without having the gout; and what I think
   more tragic still, is that another man should have the gout
   without having had the port. But still that is one of the great
   laws of life. We can not avoid it, and we dare not impugn its
   wisdom. Did we, we should be like the great civic functionary
   who determined to have a south wall built all around his
   garden.--GEORGE DAWSON.

    (3389)

Charles Wagner, in “The Gospel of Life,” gives this interesting
incident:

   Something happened last winter, in Paris, that I shall place
   side by side with the mite of the gospel. You will remark the
   profound analogy, the close spiritual kinship of these two cases.

   In the north wind of December a shelter was raised where warm
   soup was given to the unfortunate. A very old woman, who had
   long waited her turn, at length sat down and was served. Before
   she touched her portion, she noticed that a young, robust
   working man beside her had already consumed his with an avidity
   that betrayed that he was famished. At once she pushed her plate
   toward the workman and said to him: “I am not hungry, will you
   eat this?” The workman accepted. But some one had noticed all
   that had passed. As they went out, he took the old woman aside
   and said to her: “You were not hungry then?” “Oh, yes,” she
   answered, blushing, “but I am old and can bear it, and that poor
   young man was more in need of it than I.”

    (3390)


                     VICE DEN DISPLACED BY MISSION

   Persons passing No. 293 Bowery, formerly the Germania Assembly
   Rooms, were invited to come in and be “rescued.”

   “This is Hadley Rescue Hall,” said the man at the door. “Please
   come in and be rescued while there is time. All are welcome.”

   “What!” exclaimed an astonished man; “the old Germania a
   mission! Why, this place was one of the biggest gambling dens
   the city ever had, and next door was McGuirk’s ‘Suicide Hall.’
   If I had the money that I blew in there I wouldn’t be walking
   the Bowery to-day in search of a nickel for a cup of coffee.”

    (3391)


                         VICTORIES, DISASTROUS

   Milman has told us how Pope John XXI, bursting into exultant
   laughter as he entered for the first time that noble chamber
   which he had built for himself at Viterbo, is crusht by its
   avenging roof, which that instant comes down on his head.
   And thus it is true, in a deeper sense, that many a triumph
   crushes and extinguishes all that is noblest in him who has
   won it. Doubtless, failure and defeat are bitter, but hardest
   of all to bear are not our losses but our victories.--Bishop
   POTTER, _Scribner’s Magazine_.

    (3392)


                                VICTORY

   Baldwin, an Englishman, who went to Africa only with the
   intention of shooting, one day put this problem to himself,
   after having been very nearly felled by a lion: “Why does man
   risk his life without having any interest in doing so?” The
   answer he gave to himself was: “It is a question which I will
   not try to solve. All I can say is that in victory one finds an
   inward satisfaction for which it is worth while to run a risk,
   even if there is nobody to applaud.”

    (3393)

       *       *       *       *       *

In 61 B.C., Pompey returned to Rome from the wars, having
conquered the known world. He led a triumphal procession along the
_Via Sacra_, occupying two days. In front were borne brazen
tablets on which were recorded a list of the nations conquered and
the trophies won in Africa, in Europe, and in Asia, representing nine
hundred cities and one thousand fortresses. (Text.)

    (3394)

   See WINNING.


                           VICTORY IN DEFEAT

   Billy Boy was in a very serious frame of mind; in fact, he was
   quite gloomy and dejected. To be sure, his side hadn’t won the
   cricket match, but that was scarcely enough to account for his
   present state of feeling. He had lost before, and usually with
   pretty good grace. But to-day no sympathy appealed to him, no
   cheerful encouragement won so much as a shadow of a smile. The
   hopeful, merry, happy Billy Boy had entirely disappeared.

   Mother, whose experience with little boys had
   warned her of occasions when it was a case of
   “do-better-or-do-nothing-at-all,” as Hans says in the Grimm
   story, waited for the situation to develop, and at last the
   silence was broken. Slowly, seriously, solemnly, Billy Boy said
   it:

   “Mother, God was on the side of the bad boys, and they won. You
   see, we fellows thought we would try awfully hard and not get
   mad or cheat or say bad words. And not one fellow did. And the
   other fellows did--like fury. I guess they swore. And they won
   and we were licked. God was on their side all right, and it’s
   not fair.”

   Ordinary comfort and explanation availed nothing. The fact
   remained. The faithful little band that had tried to do right
   had been beaten by the rough little crowd that didn’t care
   anything at all about it. God was on the side of might--not
   right. This was self-evident and did not admit of explanation;
   and who wants comfort for injustice? Not Billy Boy. After a
   while father came in, and before Billy Boy saw him, mother had
   presented the case.

   He thought carefully a moment. Then his cheerful voice was heard.

   “Well, my boy, I hear you won out to-day.”

   “Well, then,” in a voice of awful solemnity, “you heard wrong,
   ’cause we didn’t; we were licked.”

   “Oh, but I heard that there were two contests; which did you
   win?”

   “Why, I don’t know what you mean, father.”

   “Mother told me about it. She told me you lost the match, but
   you won the big, important thing; you didn’t beat the other
   fellows, but you beat yourselves, and conquered all the anger
   and unfairness and bad language. Congratulations, old fellow!
   You won out and I’m proud of you.”

   Billy Boy’s face was slowly undergoing a change. It was growing
   once more interested, happy, hopeful. “Why, that’s so, dad,” he
   said joyously, after a minute; “I didn’t see that. And God was
   on our side after all, wasn’t He?”

   “Greater is he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a
   city,” said the father, with a smile.

   That night when Billy Boy said his prayers, this is the
   way he ended his petition: “And please, God, excuse me
   for the way I thought about you this afternoon. I didn’t
   understand.”--_Congregationalist._

    (3395)


                           VICTORY, ULTIMATE

The victory that comes beyond all life’s failures is the subject of
these lines from _Success_:

    There is no failure. Life itself’s a song
    Of victory o’er death, and ages long
    Have told the story old of triumphs wrought
    Unending, from the things once held for naught.
    The battle’s over; tho defeated now,
    In coming time the waiting world shall bow
    Before the throne of Truth that’s builded high
    Above the dust of those whose ashes lie
    All heedless of the glorious fight they won
    When death obscured the light of vict’ry’s sun.

    (3396)


                           VICTORY WITH GOD

   But yesterday I opened an English history. The scholar was
   recounting the events of the hour when Parliament prohibited
   slavery, in the English colonies. At that time, the author says,
   applause in those sacred precincts was unknown, but suddenly
   at the name of Wilberforce, all the members arose, cheered
   wildly, waved hands and caps, and in a tumult of enthusiasm,
   clustered about Wilberforce. But the one man who sat silent and
   overcome, perhaps was thinking of the hour when in Parliament
   he made his first plea. Then his seemed a hopeless task. The
   rich men of England drew their income from slavery and the sugar
   plantations. The whole moneyed system of England was involved.
   After Wilberforce’s first attack on slavery, he was left alone.
   Men turned their backs on him as if he were a leper. He ate his
   bread in solitude. When he wandered through the corridors of
   the House of Commons, he was alone, like an outcast. All great
   houses were closed to the reformer. Then Wilberforce wrote a
   little book on religion and conscience, and the moral state of
   England. But the bitter fight was transferred to a cathedral,
   whose canon thundered against the reformer, and defended the
   institution of slavery. But Wilberforce held on his way. He knew
   his God. He saw afar off Him who was invisible. And lo, the
   sword flashed, and he beheld the Prince of Peace marching to
   victory. Once there was Wilberforce, and in the shadow behind
   him one like unto the Son of God. Then, there was Wilberforce,
   and all England behind him, and the Eternal God over all,
   leading on, in whose name Wilberforce wrought exploits.--N.
   D. HILLIS.

    (3397)


                        VIEW, THE NEAR AND FAR

How often would it happen that men who see evil in other men, and hold
one another in distrust and contempt, would gain a different impression
merely by drawing nearer together. _Tit-Bits_ gives this humorous
instance:

   They met on a bridge. Each held out his hand, and they shook,
   and instantly realized that they were utter strangers. Had not
   one of them been a genuine Hibernian the situation might have
   been embarrassing.

   “Begorra, that’s quare,” said Pat. “When we wor so far off that
   we couldn’t see eich other I thought it was you an’ you thought
   it was me, and now we’re here together it’s nayther of us.”
   (Text.)

    (3398)


                              VIEW-POINT

In a poem, “The Mountain,” Edwin Markham shows how differently a
mountain affects different minds:

    Each builds his world forever, dark or bright,
    And sits within his separate universe.
    The shepherd sees in this green mountain top
    Place where his sheep may wander and grow fat.
    What to the drover is this lilied pool?
    A hollow for his swine to wallow in.
    Gold-hunters find upon this rocky peak
    Nothing but ledges for their ringing picks.
    But to the poet all this soaring height
    Smokes with the footsteps of the passing God!

    (3399)

   See LIFE WHAT WE MAKE IT; MOODS DETERMINING DESIRES.


   =Viewpoint Changed=--See VALUES IN QUESTION.


   =Views, Contracted=--See SELF-LIMITATION.


                               VIGILANCE

   Richard III went out at twilight to reconnoiter; he found a
   sentinel fast asleep at the outposts. The King promptly stabbed
   him to the heart and left upon his breast a paper with the stern
   inscription, “I found him asleep and I leave him so.”

Sooner or later death, or something equally to be feared, overtakes
every man who forsakes his duty and falls asleep at his post. (Text.)

    (3400)


   =Vigilance in Nature=--See NATURE’S AGGRESSIVENESS.


                             VINCIBLENESS

   Men are like timber. Oak will bear a stress that pine won’t,
   but there never was a stick of timber on the earth that could
   not be broken at some pressure. There never was a man born
   on the earth that could not be broken at some pressure--not
   always the same nor put in the same place. There is many a
   man who can not be broken by money pressure, but who can be
   by pressure of flattery. There is many a man impervious to
   flattery who is warped and biased by his social inclinations.
   There is many a man whom you can not tempt with red gold, but
   you can with dinners and convivialities. One way or the other,
   every man is vincible. There is a great deal of meaning in
   that simple portion of the Lord’s Prayer, “Lead us not into
   temptation.”--HENRY WARD BEECHER.

    (3401)


                         VIRTUE IN POOR GUISES

   I believe that virtue shows quite as well in rags and patches
   as she does in purple and fine linen. I believe that she and
   every beautiful object in external nature claims some sympathy
   in the breast of the poorest man who breaks his scanty loaf of
   daily bread. I believe that she goes barefoot as well as shod.
   I believe that she dwells rather oftener in alleys and by-ways
   than she does in courts and palaces, and that it is good, and
   pleasant, and profitable to track her out, and follow her. I
   believe that to lay one’s hand upon some of those rejected
   ones whom the world has too long forgotten, and too often
   misused, and to say to the proudest and most thoughtless, “These
   creatures have the same elements and capacities of goodness as
   yourselves; they are molded in the same form, and made of the
   same clay; and tho ten times worse than you, may, in having
   retained anything of their original nature amid the trials and
   distresses of their condition, be really ten times better.” I
   believe that to do this is to pursue a worthy and not useless
   vocation.--CHARLES DICKENS.

    (3402)


                       VIRTUE NOT TO BE COERCED

   The most temperate crowd of men I know is in Sing Sing. There
   isn’t a single thief in the Raymond Street Jail. But pull
   down the walls of Sing Sing, and then you will discover the
   difference between a man whose virtue depends upon a wall
   and the man whose goodness depends upon a will.--N. D.
   HILLIS.

    (3403)


                           VIRTUE, TIRING OF

   We have come to a time when multitudes are tired of law, and
   duty, honor, justice, and the old solid and substantial virtues
   of the fathers. Now and then this rebellious mood voices itself
   in the lips of some restless youth who exclaims boldly, “I
   hate the very word duty.” Men are become like the cattle in
   the clover-field, that once the appetite is satisfied, tire of
   walking around knee-deep in rich, luscious grasses, and stick
   their heads through the fence, to strain toward the dog’s kennel
   in the dusty lane. It is a singular fact that a colt in the
   field, up to its ears in clover, as soon as it has eaten and
   is full, envies the poor old forsaken horse, out in the lane,
   a mere bag of bones, deserted by its owner and left to die,
   and eating dirt in its hungry desire for a single mouthful of
   grass-roots.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (3404)


                         VIRTUES, TRANSPLANTED

   A rare plant from the King’s Gardens at Kew, England, has
   floated down the stream to a little village in Surrey. Its
   flowers may now be seen, to the great surprize of botanists,
   growing on the banks of this village stream in fine profusion.
   So the flowers of humility, love, and faith, transplanted in us
   from higher lives may grow in the humblest lives, surprizing all
   around by their sweet fragrance.

    (3405)


   =Vision=--See ELEVATION AND VISION; INSPIRATION.


   =Vision, Distorted=--See BLINDNESS CURED.


                            VISION OF JESUS

It was the vision of the Savior which transformed the whole being of
Paul. And the apprehension of the person of the risen and ascended Son
of God must forever change the one who has beheld Him.

   Sir David Brewster says, in his life of Sir Isaac Newton, that
   the great astronomer on a certain occasion gazed steadfastly
   with his naked eyes on the sun shining in his meridian splendor.
   As a consequence, the impression in the retina was so deep that
   for days he could not see anything with distinctness--turn which
   way he would, he constantly beheld the image of the sun. He shut
   himself up for days in a dark room, but even there he could
   clearly discern the golden halo of the light. (Text.)

    (3406)


                            VISION RESTORED

   A young French girl, daughter of a famous painter, had lost her
   eyesight in infancy. She was supposed to be incurably blind. But
   years later a noted Paris oculist was consulted and performed
   a delicate operation which completely restored her vision.
   Frequently afterward she would run into her father’s arms and
   exclaim: “To think that I had such a father for so many years
   and never knew him!”

So many souls are blind and are ignorant of their Heavenly Father!
(Text.)

    (3407)


   =Vision, The Larger=--See SELF-LIMITATIONS.


   =Visiting, Vain=--See ACQUAINTANCES.


                             VITAL FAITHS

   An institution has life in it. Cut any of the faiths of your
   fathers and they bleed. At the heart of a grain of wheat is a
   golden spot that holds the life, and a coming sheaf. You may
   strip off the outer hull, but touch that living heart at your
   peril. You may change the forms of your government, but, oh,
   guard the liberty of your fathers. You may change the wording of
   your fathers’ creed, but at your peril touch the providence of
   God, His Fatherhood and love, the way of life through Christ,
   the hope of immortality. You may change the method of worship
   on Sunday, but at your peril do not destroy it, until in one
   wild orgy of drunken pleasure, your children become mere insect
   “skippers,” dancing for a day on the surface of a poisoned pool,
   then to disappear forever.--N. D. HILLIS.

    (3408)


                             VITALITY, LOW

Just as the body when at a low vitality is susceptible to colds, so it
may as truly be said of the soul, when impoverished it falls a prey to
temptation and sin.

   The common theory that all colds are the result of exposure is a
   great mistake, inasmuch as exposure is not the direct cause of
   the trouble. Colds are caused by hostile microbes, or bacteria,
   which gain a foothold at a time when our vitality has been
   lowered by exposure. But there are many quarters of the globe
   where one finds it impossible to catch cold, simply by reason of
   the fact that there is no cold to catch.

   Peary and his men during the months they spent in the arctic
   regions were immune from cold, tho they were constantly enduring
   exposure of every kind. They passed day after day in clothes
   so saturated with perspiration that by day they froze into a
   solid mass, so to speak, and the clothes cut into their flesh.
   And at night, in their sleeping-bags, the first hour was spent
   in thawing out. They returned to civilization none the worse in
   health, but soon contracted severe colds upon reaching there.
   People were much amused by the press accounts of how Commander
   Peary had taken cold while proceeding to dine with a friend
   in a suburb of Washington, the taxicab which was conveying
   him and his wife having broken down during a snow flurry in
   December.--_Harper’s Weekly._

    (3409)


   =Vocabulary and Missionaries=--See SPEECH AND MISSIONARIES.


   =Vocal Practise and Health=--See SINGING CONDUCIVE TO HEALTH.


                             VOCIFERATION

   The Persians in their battles with the Scythians brought with
   them from Europe in their train a great number of asses, as
   beasts of burden, to transport the tents and the baggage of
   the army. These asses were accustomed in times of excitement
   and danger to set up a very terrific braying. It was, in fact,
   all that they could do. And it was effective, for the Scythian
   horses in their troops of cavalry, who would have faced spears
   and javelins and the loudest shouts and vociferations of human
   adversaries without fear, were appalled and put to flight at
   hearing the unearthly noises which issued from the Persian camp
   whenever they approached it. The battle was won by the braying
   of asses.

Any political campaign might stand as a testimony of the power of
vociferation. But the really important issues of the world are never
decided by the braying of asses.

    (3410)


   =Voice=--See AUDIENCE, INSPIRATION FROM.


                            VOICE, A SWEET

   The sweet voice of Philip Phillips once charmed the Senate
   chamber at Washington and won a rare tribute from President
   Lincoln. It was toward the close of the Civil War. The United
   States Christian Commission was in session. Statesmen, generals
   and other leading friends of the Union were there. On being
   invited to sing, Mr. Phillips rendered Mrs. Gates’ “Your
   Mission,” beginning,

    “If you can not on the ocean
      Sail among the swiftest fleet.”

   As he proceeded every one sat spellbound. But when he reached
   the lines,

    “If you can not in the conflict
      Prove yourself a soldier true;
    If where fire and smoke are thickest
      There’s no work for you to do;
    When the battle-field is silent
      You can go with careful tread;
    You can bear away the wounded,
      You can cover up the dead,”

   the Senate chamber rang with a tempest of applause, and a note
   was passed to the chairman, Secretary Seward, from the pen of
   Mr. Lincoln for the singer: “Near the close let us have ‘Your
   Mission’ repeated.”

    (3411)


   =Voice, Knowledge of=--See TESTIMONY, A SHEEP’S.


                             VOICE OF GOD

   There is an old legend of a nun. She had gone into the thick
   solitudes to listen to the forest voices. Seated in the shade
   of a tree she heard a song till then new to her ears. It was
   the song of the mystic bird. In that song she heard in music
   all that man thinks and feels, all that he seeks and that he
   fails to find. On strong wings that song lifted her soul to the
   heights where it looks upon reality. There, with hands clasped,
   the nun listened and listened, forgetting earth, sky, time and
   even self-listened for long centuries, never tiring, but ever
   finding in that voice a sweetness forever new.

Just such music, only infinitely sweeter, does the soul find that
listens amid its solitudes to the voice of God. (Text.)

    (3412)


                           VOICE, THE HUMAN

The author of the “Descent of Man” thinks even the human voice is
prophetic of the ascent of man. Speaking of the “wonderful power,
range, flexibility, and sweetness of the musical sounds producible by
the human larynx,” he says:

   The habits of savages give no indication of how this faculty
   could have been developed. The singing of savages is a more or
   less monotonous howling, and the females seldom sing at all.
   It seems as if the organ had been prepared in anticipation of
   the future progress of man, since it contains latent capacities
   which are useless to him in his earlier condition.

    (3413)


   =Voice, The Mother’s=--See FATHER’S VOICE.


   =Voting=--See BALLOT A DUTY.


   =Vows=--See GRATITUDE.


   =Voyage of Life=--See LIFE A VOYAGE.


                         VULGARITY IN THE RICH

   “Edward Everett Hale,” said a lawyer, “was one of the guests at
   a millionaire’s dinner. The millionaire was a free spender, but
   he wanted full credit for every dollar put out. As the dinner
   progressed, he told his guests what the more expensive dishes
   had cost.

   “‘This terrapin,’ he would say, ‘was shipped direct from
   Baltimore. A Baltimore cook came on to prepare it. The dish
   actually cost one dollar a teaspoonful.’

   “So he talked of the fresh peas, the hothouse asparagus,
   the Covent Garden peaches, and the other courses. He dwelt
   especially on the expense of the large and beautiful grapes,
   each bunch a foot long, each grape bigger than a plum. He told
   down to a penny what he had figured it out that the grapes had
   cost him apiece.

   “The guests looked annoyed. They ate the expensive grapes
   charily. But Dr. Hale, smiling, extended his plate and said:

   “‘Would you mind cutting me off about $1.87 worth more,
   please?’” (Text.)--Rochester _Herald_.

    (3414)




                                   W


   =Wager, A Rash=--See WOMANLY WIT.


                             WAIT AND SEE

    Be not swift to be afraid;
    Many a ghostly thing is laid
    In the light from out the shade,
            Wait and see.

    Do not live your sorrows twice;
    Fear is like a touch of ice;
    Faith can kill it in a trice,
            Wait and see.

    Why expect the worst to come?
    Pondered cares are troublesome,
    Joy makes up a goodly sum,
            Wait and see.

    Better than your wildest dreams
    Is God’s light that for you gleams.
    When the morning cloudy seems,
            Wait and see.

    --MARIANNE FARNINGHAM.

    (3415)


                                WAITING

We often accomplish more by patient waiting than by direct effort.

   There was a very balky horse in town which nobody could drive.
   A kind gentleman undertook to drive him through the White
   Mountains. His owner laughed, and said: “You can not drive out
   of town, much less through the mountains.” He said quietly, “I
   think I will manage him,” and he did, in this way. He filled the
   carriage-box with books, and when the horse balked he quietly
   flung the reins on the hook, took out a book and began to read,
   and waited patiently until the horse saw fit to start. This he
   did two or three times, and the horse was cured.

    (3416)

   See STATIC PROGRESS.


   =Waiting for Enlightenment=--See DRINK.


   =Walking=--See FOLLOWING INEXACTLY; GAIT AND CHARACTER.


                        WALKING FOR INSPIRATION

   Much bending over the folio does not make the better part of
   poetry or of prose. It inheres as much in the physiological
   condition that results from the swinging of the legs, which
   movement quickens heart action and stimulates the brain by
   supplying it with blood charged with the life-giving principle
   of the open air.

   In spite of his club-foot, Byron, one of the most fecund, if
   not the most moral, of poets, managed to walk about in the open
   to an extent that should shame the verse-writer of to-day,
   clinging to his strap in the trolley-car. Wordsworth walked
   all over the Cumberland district and the neighboring country.
   Wherever he happened to be he poked into every secret corner.
   Shelley, we are told, rambled everywhere. Despite all unseemly
   cavil as to Tennyson’s drinking habits, I should say that he
   drew more inspiration from his walks than from his wine. Goethe,
   who during his lifetime required fifty thousand bottles of the
   vintner’s best to sweeten his imagination, found his extensive
   walks about Weimar a source of great inspirational profit.
   (Text.)--BAILEY MILLARD, _The Critic_.

    (3417)


                           WALKING WITH GOD

   When a boy I remember distinctly seeing my father at a long
   distance off (almost as far as the eye could reach) on a road on
   which we were all accustomed to travel, as it was the highway
   to a big city. The one thing that enabled me to distinguish my
   father from other fellow travelers on that road was his manly
   walk. There was the graceful swing of the arm and directness of
   step, with his toes pointing in the right direction that quickly
   identified him from other men.

   In the moral and spiritual world we are known by how we step,
   whether we are stepping with God or away from Him.--R. S.

    (3418)

       *       *       *       *       *

Jeanette McMillan writes in this poem of a life’s journey with God:

    My plans were made, I thought my path all bright and clear,
    My heart with songs o’erflowed, the world seemed full of cheer,
    My Lord I wished to serve, to take Him for my Guide,
    To keep so close that I could feel Him by my side;
              And so I traveled on.

    But suddenly, in skies so clear and full of light,
    The clouds came thick and fast, the day seemed changed to night.
    Instead of paths so clear and full of things so sweet,
    Rough things, and thorns, and stones seemed all about my feet,
              I scarce could travel on.

    I bowed my head and wondered why this change should come,
    And murmured, “Lord, is this because of aught I’ve done?
    Has not the past been full enough of pain and care?
    Why should my path again be changed to dark from fair?”
              But still I traveled on.

    I listened--quiet and still, there came a voice:
    “This path is mine, not thine; I made the choice.
    Dear child, this service will be best for thee and me
    If thou wilt simply trust and leave the end with me.”
              And so we travel on.

    (3419)


                           WANDERER’S RETURN

   A widowed lady of mature life mourned a runaway son who was lost
   to her for years. Her sorrow had silenced her song, for she was
   a cultured woman and an accomplished vocalist. But during a
   visit at a distant friend’s home she was induced to sing at a
   church service, choosing for her solo, “Where is my wandering
   boy to-night?” and, of course, sang it with much feeling; and
   after rendering the second stanza:

    “Once he was pure as the morning dew,
      As he knelt at his mother’s knee,
    No face was so bright, no heart more true,
      And none were so sweet as he,”

   the congregation joined in the refrain:

      “O where is my boy to-night?
      O where is my boy to-night?
    My heart o’erflows, for I love him he knows,
      O where is my boy to-night?”

   “Mother, I’m here,” responded a young man away back, making his
   way sobbing up the aisle. Among the converts that night was this
   returning wanderer. The Rev. Robert Lowry is the author of the
   hymn and tune.

    (3420)


                         WANT BRINGS PROGRESS

    How paltry, worthless, small and scant
    A world in which man knew not want,
    Where no ungratified desire
    Allured or drove him to aspire!
    Then welcome world of toil and hope
    Where every energy has scope!
    Brothers, in God’s great world rejoice,
    And harken to His cheering voice
    That calls man to the larger task
    And gives him more than he could ask.
    Let us in the assurance rest
    That what God does is always best.

    --CHARLES WILLIAM PEARSON, “A Threefold Cord.”

    (3421)


   =War=--See ARMIES OF THE WORLD; MILITARISM; NAVIES OF THE WORLD;
      STRATEGY; TENSION, MORAL.


                         WAR, AFTER EFFECTS OF

   The Civil War lasted four years. The number of those enlisted
   in the Union army was 2,113,000. The number killed in action
   was 67,000; died of wounds received in action, 43,000; while
   the total number of deaths from all causes was 359,000. I have
   no statistics of the Confederate army, but certainly they would
   largely increase the total casualties of the war. On the other
   hand, the Spanish War lasted but a few months. The total number
   of men mustered in was 223,000. The number killed in action
   was only 218--not as many as have been killed in many a single
   mining catastrophe; the number of those that died from wounds
   received in action was 81; the number dying from disease,
   3,848. The total casualties during that war were less than the
   number killed in railroad accidents in this country during a
   single year. According to the report of the Interstate Commerce
   Commission, the number killed on our railways during the year
   ending June 30, 1908, was 3,764; the number injured, 68,989.
   Other years show a greater fatality. In the Civil War were some
   of the greatest battles of history and a terrible loss of life
   on either side. In the Spanish War, outside of two brilliant
   naval engagements, there were only a few skirmishes. The two
   wars taken as a whole compare about like a twelve-inch rifled
   gun with a small pistol; and yet, as we have seen, after the
   Civil War there was no cry for an increase in armament, no
   call for a navy to challenge the fleets of the world, a steady
   payment of the national indebtedness, a devotion to the pursuits
   of peace, and a magnificent enlargement of our industries and
   business, while after the Spanish War we increased our army,
   and we have been steadily building ironclad after ironclad,
   until now our navy stands second among the navies of the
   world.--DAVID J. BREWER.

    (3422)

   See SACRIFICE, TOO COSTLY.


                     WAR AND PHYSICAL DEVELOPMENT

In a sermon on the scientific indictment of war, Dr. James H. Ecob says:

   Soldiers must be young men; not only that, but young men of
   the finest possible physical development. The question at once
   presents itself, What effect must it have upon the physical
   stamina of a people, if the very flower of its young men are led
   out and fed to the cannon? What would we say of a farmer who
   should lead out into the back lots the very flower of his stock
   and shoot it down, leaving it there as food for crows and foxes?
   At first we would cry, shameful waste? But a second thought,
   more fundamental and portentous, is, what effect must such a
   policy have upon the physical status or grade of the stock that
   remains. If the best are thrown away and only the second best
   are retained, progressive degeneration of the stock must result.

    (3423)


                             WAR, COST OF

   That we may better appreciate the present problem in its
   relation to the United States, attention is called to the
   appropriations made by the United States Government. For the
   year ending June 30, 1910, the appropriations for the army,
   fortifications and military academy amount to $111,897,515.67;
   for the navy, $136,935,199.05; and for pensions, $160,908,000.
   The total amount to be expended during the current fiscal
   year on account of wars and preparations for war aggregates
   $409,740,714.72. Compare these figures with the relatively
   insignificant sum of $32,007,049, which is the total amount
   appropriated for the use of the executive, legislative and
   judicial departments of the Government during the same period.

   The total expenditures of the Government of the United States
   from its beginning in 1789 to 1909 has been as follows: For
   war, $6,699,583,209; for navy, $2,441,572,934; for pensions,
   $4,155,267,356. This aggregates the vast sum of $13,296,423,549
   expended for war purposes, as against $4,466,068,760 expended
   for civil and miscellaneous purposes.

   The average annual cost of the army and navy of the United
   States for the eight years preceding the Spanish War was
   $51,500,000. The average annual cost of the army and navy for
   the eight years since the Spanish War has been $185,400,000. The
   average yearly increase in the latter period as compared with
   the former has been $134,000,000, making a total increase in
   eight years of $1,072,000,000, or 360 per cent. This increase
   for eight years exceeds the national debt by $158,000,000.
   The amount of all gifts to charities, libraries, educational
   institutions and other public causes in 1909 in this country was
   $185,000,000, or $400,000 less than the average annual cost for
   the army and navy for the past eight years. What benefit has the
   nation derived from all this expenditure?

    (3424)

   See ARMIES OF THE WORLD; NAVIES OF THE WORLD; MILITARISM.


                              WAR DISPLAY

Edmund Vance Cooke writes of the cruise of the American fleet around
the globe in the following significant lines:

    This is the song of the thousand men who are multiplied by twelve,
    Sorted and sifted, tested and tried, and muscled to dig and delve.
    They come from the hum of city and shop, they come from the farm
      and the field.
    And they plow the acres of ocean now, but tell me, what is their
      yield?

    This is the song of the sixteen ships to buffet the battle and
      gale,
    And in every one we have thrown away a Harvard or a Yale.
    Behold here the powers of Pittsburg, the mills of Lowell and Lynn,
    And the furnaces roar and the boilers seethe, but tell me, what do
      they spin?

    This is the song of the long, long miles from Hampton to the Horn,
    From the Horn away to the western bay whence our guns are proudly
      borne.
    A flying fleet and a host of hands to carry these rounds of shot!
    And behold they have girdled the globe by half, and what is the
      gain they have brought?

    This is the song of the wasters, ay, defenders, if you please,
    Defenders against our fellows, with their wasters even as these,
    For we stumble still at the lesson taught since ever the years were
      young,
    That the chief defense of a nation is to guard its own hand and
      tongue.

    This is the song of our sinning (for the fault is not theirs, but
      ours),
    That we chain these slaves to our galley-ships as the symbol of our
      powers;
    That we clap applause, that we cry hurrahs, that we vent our
      unthinking breath,
    For oh, we are proud that we flaunt this flesh in the markets of
      dismal death.

    --_Christian Work and Evangelist._

    (3425)


                       WAR, RACIAL FERTILITY AND

  [Illustration:

    1890–98: 51 Millions
    Annual Cost of
    the Army and
    Navy of the
    United States
    1902–10: 185 Millions

  COMPARISON OF THE ANNUAL COST OF THE ARMY AND NAVY OF THE
  UNITED STATES--1890–98, 1902–10]

Overproduction of offspring--“race-suicide” by suffocation instead
of by starvation--is responsible, we are now told, for the impulse
that is driving the great nations toward war. Germany has outgrown
her territory and must seize on some of Great Britain’s colonial
overflow territory; Japan is similarly plethoric with population and
must disgorge into our Philippines. This is the simple explanation of
modern militarism offered by Henry M. Hyde, writing under the title
that heads this article, in _The Technical World Magazine_. His
theory has the advantage that most of the great world-movements in
recorded history may be traced to this cause, from the Aryan migration
to the daily influx of Poles and Hungarians on our own shores. After
dwelling on the recent huge increase of armaments, the hasty building
of dreadnoughts, the war-scares in England, the eager toasts on German
battleships “to the Day”--meaning the day when the Kaiser shall turn
loose his dogs of war on Britain--the writer goes on:

   What is the matter with the world? What is the disease from
   which civilization suffers? And where are the physicians who
   shall prescribe the necessary remedies?

   Pending an answer to these ancient and disputed questions, it is
   desired to point out certain facts which may help to explain the
   present situation and to ask whether, because of these facts,
   the nations may not, almost in spite of themselves, be driven
   into war?

   In 1800 France had 4,000,000 more population than Germany. At
   that time both nations occupied approximately the same amount
   of territory, about 200,000 square miles each. The density of
   population in France was 134 to the square mile; in Germany it
   was 113.

 [Illustration: COMPARATIVE DENSITY OF POPULATION

      United States 30 per sq. mile Germany 303 per sq. mile
      Canada 2 per sq. mile Japan 315 per sq. mile Philippines
      69 per sq. mile South America 7 per sq. mile]

   In the last hundred years the fertility of the German nation has
   been so great that, in spite of the fact that it has sent more
   than 6,000,000 emigrants to the United States and millions more
   to other foreign countries, it has increased its home population
   to 64,000,000, nearly treble the number in 1800. During the same
   period the population of France, which has sent practically
   no immigrants abroad, has increased by less than 50 per cent.
   And, it should be remembered, in spite of Alsace and Lorraine,
   the territory of the two nations has remained practically the
   same--approximately 200,000 square miles each.

  [Illustration: COMPARATIVE NAVAL STRENGTH OF ENGLAND AND
  GERMANY IN TERMS OF DREADNOUGHTS

  1907 - Germany None England (four) 1910 - Germany (seven)
  England (seven)]

  [Illustration: AT THE END OF THREE YEARS Comparative
  naval strength of the nations, in dreadnoughts, in 1913;
  the United States has six dreadnoughts, built and building.
  Germany England Austria Russia Japan France Italy]

   At present the density of population in the German Empire is
   303 to the square mile. What that means may be grasped by
   considering that if the United States was as thickly populated
   as Germany is at the present time we should have 900,000,000
   people--ten times our present population. In other words the
   present density of population in the United States is only 30 to
   the square mile.

   If there were ten men to the present one on every acre in the
   United States some of us would certainly think of moving.
   Indeed, there is already complaint that the country is getting
   overcrowded. This year alone nearly 100,000 farmers from the
   Western States moved across the line into Canada, where land is
   still plenty and unsettled. If every man, woman and child in the
   United States was shut up within the limits of Texas, the Lone
   Star State would be little more crowded than is Germany at the
   present time. Put the strongest navy in the world across the
   Gulf from Texas and line the boundaries of the State with camps
   of armed men and one may get a fairly good idea of the German
   situation.

   But--granted that Germany now holds all the people it can
   support--where may the loyal German go and remain under the
   German flag? The German colonies are small, scattering and not
   well fitted for the homes of white men. There are hundreds of
   thousands of Germans in various parts of South America, where
   the country is still undeveloped. But the United States holds
   all this continent under the protection of the Monroe Doctrine
   and forbids the hoisting of a foreign flag. Almost all the rest
   of the undeveloped world which is counted a white man’s country
   is part of the Empire of Great Britain.

   Where and how shall the immensely virile and fertile Germanic
   race find a new home and a new empire over seas? Or will it,
   with the greatest army in the world at its command and a
   tremendous war fleet in the making, sit tight within its narrow
   boundaries at home until famine and pestilence sap its vitality
   and reduce its numbers? It may do that, it may allow millions of
   its sons to renounce their allegiance to the fatherland, or it
   may--the last terrible alternative is the one of which the world
   stands in dread.

    (3426)

   See ARMIES OF THE WORLD; MILITARISM; NAVIES OF THE WORLD.


                          WAR, THE HORRORS OF

   After his splendid victory of Austerlitz was won and the iron
   crown of empire securely fixt on his brow, Napoleon, standing
   on the high ground, saw a portion of the defeated Russian army
   making a slow, painful retreat over a frozen lake. They were
   at his mercy. He rode up to a battery and said, “Men, you are
   losing time! fire on those masses; they must be swallowed
   up! fire on that ice!” Shells were thrown, the bridge of ice
   was broken, and amid awful shrieks hundreds upon hundreds of
   miserable wretches were buried in the frozen waters.

The crime of war is its wanton waste of human life. And so are the
social wrongs that decimate our world. And so is evil in every form.
(Text.)

    (3427)


                          WARFARE, ANTIQUATED

   The ordinary spear was eighteen feet long, or three times the
   height of the man, and from one inch to an inch and a half in
   thickness. The iron jaws of the head were two feet and a half in
   length.

   With such spears the Massachusetts militia was trained for more
   than forty years, or until the outbreak of Philip’s war. I do
   not know how long they may have been used in Virginia. Poking
   Indians armed with muskets out of a swamp with a spear might do
   for imaginary warfare--but when it came to real fighting it was
   very ugly business. The desperate character of the conflicts
   with Philip and the necessity for the exclusive use of gunpowder
   became apparent, and the edict went forth that the militia, who
   were trained to the use of the spear, should take up the musket.
   With this edict the spear disappeared in this country forever.
   It went out in England about the same time. Thus do we learn the
   progress of the human mind in arts of destruction.--EDWARD
   EGGLESTON.

    (3428)


                             WARMTH, LOST

   A story is told of a certain pastor who mourned over a
   backslider in his congregation, once a regular attendant at
   the prayer service, but who had drifted away, and who for many
   months had not been seen in the “upper room.” Finally, unable
   to stand it longer, at the close of one of the meetings, in
   which the voice formerly accustomed to lead in prayer was
   sorely missed, the minister went straight to the man’s home and
   found him sitting before the open fire. The absentee, somewhat
   startled by the intrusion, hastily placed another chair for his
   visitor and then waited for the expected words of rebuke. Had
   the rebuke been spoken, no one knows what the reply might have
   been or what mistaken yet lasting anger might have been kindled.
   But not a word did the minister say. Taking his seat before
   the fire, he silently took the tongs and lifting a glowing
   coal from the midst of its fellows, laid it by itself upon the
   hearthstone. Remaining painfully silent, he watched the blaze
   die out and the last warm flush of life fade away. Then it was
   the truant who opened his lips to say: “You need not say a
   single word, sir; I’ll be there next Wednesday night.” (Text.)

    (3429)


   =Warmth of Christian Love=--See DOUBTS, DISSOLVING.


                                WARNING

   A wasteful loss of fish life occurs by the sacrifice of millions
   of little fishes that are left to gasp out their lives on the
   meadows and grain-fields all over the great State of Montana
   owing to the irrigation ditches. To prevent this waste a
   paddle-wheel is installed at the head of a ditch to frighten
   back and prevent the fish from entering the intake. A law
   requiring this to be done is now in force in that State.

How many silly souls are warned away from danger-points in life by wise
devices both divine and human!

    (3430)

   Julius Cæsar was at one time the idol of the Roman army. The
   ancient eternal city was at his feet. His foot was on the neck
   of his enemies and his word was sufficient to hurry his rival,
   Pompey, to an ignominious grave. The treasures of the world,
   power, dominion and wealth were at his command. Yet he had not
   the time as he went forward to the senate chamber on the Ides of
   March to read the letter handed him that warned him of the plot
   against his life.

   Men are mercifully given time to live. But they are too busy to
   get ready to live, and too busy to heed the warnings that, if
   heeded, would save and prolong their lives.

    (3431)

       *       *       *       *       *

   On an island off the Connecticut coast there stands, says
   _Harper’s Weekly_, a huge revolving platform whereon are
   placed eight large megaphones, each measuring some seventeen
   feet and having a mouth seven feet in diameter.

   These horns are intended to cry warning to vessels at
   every point of the compass, the power being furnished by a
   steam-whistle. Their cry has been heard a distance of twenty
   miles, and when the wind is favorable it will carry nearly twice
   as far.

   The instruments utter their warnings every fifteen seconds, each
   megaphone giving out its cry in turn, so that the warning notes
   make their way out over the water in every direction. There is
   a combination of short and long blasts for each point of the
   compass, so that mariners may know exactly whence the sound
   proceeds.

   At Diamond Shoals, off Cape Hatteras, that graveyard of the
   Atlantic, where, by reason of the shifty character of the
   soil, it has been found impracticable to erect a lighthouse,
   the Federal Government has installed a contrivance held down
   by “mushroom” anchors. This instrument consists of two big
   megaphones, with a diaphragm vibrated by electricity. The
   machine is operated by clockwork, and, once wound up, shouts for
   many months without the necessity of any attention on the part
   of attendants. In calm weather the shout of this instrument is
   audible for a distance of twenty-five miles.

To be useful these warning voices must be heeded. So is it with moral
warnings, of which the world is full.

    (3432)


                          WARNING, AUTOMATIC

The spirit of God is a signal of warning to the soul when floods of
evil are imminent.

   Spain is subject to more frequent sudden inundations, perhaps,
   than any other country in Europe, and the necessity for some
   device to give warning may be appreciated. Such an alarm, ready
   night and day to notify the population along a river-bank of
   the approach of a dangerous flood, has been invented by Ramon
   Martinez di Campos, an engineer of Murcia. It is described as
   follows:

   “The device uses the electric current; when an abnormal
   stage of the river is reached the water closes a circuit and
   thus starts an alarm signal at a great distance down-stream.
   In the present arrangement the automatic circuit-closer
   consists of a galvanized iron float which at high water makes
   contact with a fixt sheet of metal on a pole or a masonry
   support.”--_Cosmos._

    (3433)


                           WARNING MESSAGES

   Once when the Persians and the Scythians confronted each other
   for battle, there appeared at the Persian camp a messenger
   from the Scythians, who said that he had some presents from
   the Scythian chief for Darius. The gifts proved to be a bird,
   a mouse, a frog, and five arrows. No explanation being given
   as to what the message meant, much curiosity on that point
   was manifested and many guesses were made. At length it was
   suggested that it meant threats and defiance. “It may mean,”
   said one, “that unless you can fly like a bird, into the air, or
   hide like a mouse in the ground, or bury yourselves like a frog
   in morasses and fens, you can not escape our arrows.”

The gospel message to us is not so ambiguous as this, but it is equally
ominous if it be slighted.

    (3434)


                          WASHINGTON, GEORGE

   Perhaps one of the wittiest toasts on record is that of
   Franklin. After the victories of Washington had made his name
   well known throughout Europe, Franklin chanced to dine with the
   French and English ambassadors, when these toasts were drunk.
   The son of Britain rose and proudly remarked: “England--the sun
   whose beams enlighten and fructify the remotest corners of the
   earth.”

   The Frenchman, glowing with national pride, drunk: “France--the
   moon whose mild, steady, cheering rays are the delight of all
   nations; consoling them in darkness and making their dreariness
   beautiful.”

   This furnished Franklin with a fine opening, and his quaint
   humor bubbled over in his retort: “George Washington--the
   Joshua, who commanded the sun and the moon to stand still and
   they obeyed him.”

    (3435)

   See LIFE, THE SIMPLE.


                          WASHINGTON’S GENIUS

   Brilliant I will not call him, if the brightness of the rippling
   river exceed the solemn glory of old ocean. Brilliant I will
   not call him, if darkness must be visible in order to display
   the light; for he had none of that rocket-like brilliancy which
   flames in instant coruscation across the black brow of night,
   and then is not. But if a steady, unflickering flame, slow
   rising to its lofty sphere, dispensing far and wide its rays,
   revealing all things on which it shines in due proportions and
   large relations, making right, duty, and destiny so plain that
   in the vision we are scarce conscious of the light--if this be
   brilliancy, then the genius of Washington was as full-orbed
   and luminous as the god of day in his zenith.--JOHN W.
   DANIEL.

    (3436)


   =Washington’s Humility=--See LIFE, THE SIMPLE.


                                 WASTE

   Water washes everything, touches everything, impregnates
   everything. Nothing escapes it. Incessantly, everywhere,
   whatever it meets, is dissolved and finally deposited in the
   immense common receptacle of the oceanic basins.

   This constant washing continually modifies the chemical
   composition of the earth’s surface, and it evidently does so
   to the detriment of the soil’s fertility, since the substances
   that make a soil fertile are just those that are soluble in
   water. This general sterilization is masked by local advantages.
   A valley like that of the Nile, for instance, benefits by the
   substances brought down from regions nearer its source, but in
   the long run rivers are always carrying to the sea an enormous
   quantity of fertilizing material that is lost beyond recall.
   (Text.)--PAUL COMBES, _Cosmos_ (Paris).

    (3437)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Petroleum and natural gas, which are supplements to coal, are
   subjected to wanton waste. Natural gas is now being wasted at
   the rate of a billion cubic feet a day, by being blown into
   the air. In Louisiana great spouting wells of gas are burning
   in the open atmosphere, doing no good whatever to anybody. It
   is estimated that there are thus consumed in that State alone
   seventy million cubic feet per day, more than enough to supply
   Boston, Baltimore, Washington, Cleveland, Detroit, Milwaukee,
   and Pittsburg.

   If the present rate of increase of exploitation of highgrade
   iron-ore continues, the supply will not last more than fifty
   years. In the not distant future it is certain that we shall be
   obliged to turn to the lower grade ores, of which the quantity
   is vastly greater, but the smelting of these ores will make a
   much heavier draft upon our coal supply.

   Like coal and iron, the output of copper and zinc has more
   than doubled during recent decades, and the product of the
   past ten years is greater than the entire previous history of
   exploitation of these metals in this country.

   Each year, not considering loss by fire, we are consuming three
   and one-half times as much wood as is grown. It is estimated
   that we allow twenty million acres of forest to be burned over
   annually. Of the timber we take, from one-fourth to one-half
   is lost by our wasteful methods of cutting and manufacture.
   Already within a little more than a century of the life of this
   nation approximately one-half of our forest products are gone.
   Our system of taxation of forests encourages rapid cutting
   rather than conservation. We must reform our tax laws concerning
   forest products; we must eliminate forest fires; we must use
   economically the wood cut; we must reduce the total amount
   used per capita until the growth of one year is equal to the
   consumption of that year.

   Our water resources, including water for domestic purposes, for
   irrigation, for navigation, for power, are enormous. As yet they
   have been only very partially utilized. Fortunately, the water
   continues in undiminished quantities, being ever withdrawn from
   the ocean through the power of the sun, and ever falling upon
   the land. It is a perpetual resource.--_Collier’s Weekly._

    (3438)


                            WASTE BY DRINK

   A man, who had destroyed three happy homes through his drinking
   habits, was converted, and set to work to lead his friends
   to Christ. Some time after his conversion one of his mates,
   seeing how clean and happy he was looking, asked him jocularly
   if he had any houses to let. He knew the questioner was a
   heavy drinker, so he decided to give him a practical lesson.
   “Here, mate,” he said, “just take a look down my throat, will
   you?” “There’s nothing there,” said the other, after a careful
   inspection of his throat. “Well, that’s queer, for I’ve put
   three good homes and a grocer’s shop down that throat, drowning
   them in drink.” (Text.)

    (3439)

   See DRINK, EFFECTS OF.


                            WASTE OF LIVES

   Of all wastes, the greatest waste that you can commit is the
   waste of labor. If you went down in the morning into your dairy,
   and found that your youngest child had got down before you,
   and that he and the cat were at play together, and that he had
   poured out all the cream on the floor for the cat to lap up, you
   would scold the child, and be sorry the cream was wasted. But
   if, instead of wooden bowls with milk in them, there are golden
   bowls with human life in them, and instead of the cat to play
   with--the devil to play with; and you yourself the player; and
   instead of leaving that golden bowl to be broken by God at the
   fountain, you break it in the dust yourself, and pour the human
   life out on the ground for the fiend to lick up--is that not
   waste?--JOHN RUSKIN.

    (3440)


                            WASTE, STOPPING

   The Agricultural Department has inaugurated a war on rats, not
   as a preventive of the plague or on account of health, but
   because of the great loss produced in the country by rats, and
   especially to farmers and producers. The department claims that
   a rat eats sixty cents’ worth of grain a year, and that the
   actual destruction caused by them amounts to over one hundred
   millions of dollars a year. The extermination of rats will be
   a great undertaking. Yet it could be accomplished by national
   effort were it not for the new supplies brought by ships. It
   is believed that by proper regulations even this supply might
   be cut off, or the rats killed before spreading. It would cost
   only a small part of the one hundred millions of dollars to
   exterminate the rat. The expenditure of ten millions under
   national authority would be economy.

There are moral wastes comparatively more destructive than the plague
of rats, that all men should join in exterminating--the saloon, for
example.

    (3441)


                         WASTE, THE PROBLEM OF

   Professor Marshall, the English economist, estimates that
   the British working classes spend every year not less than
   $500,000,000 for things that do nothing to make them either
   happier or nobler. The president of the British Association,
   in an address before the economic section, confirmed these
   estimates, and avowed his belief that the sum named above was
   wasted in food alone. Professor Matthews adds that so large a
   proportion of our housekeepers are brought up in town life and
   factory life that they do not know how to buy economically,
   while the cooking art has necessarily gone into decadence. He
   estimates the waste in the United States from bad cooking alone
   to be at least $1,000,000 every year.--_Independent._

    (3442)


                             WASTES, MORAL

One day in a public restaurant a gentleman, who owns a large
fruit-orchard in one of the Northwestern States, was talking about what
wonderful fruit was produced by his trees.

   “Why,” said he, “I see in market here in Pittsburg apples
   selling at a good price that we wouldn’t even use out our way.
   We’d never think of selling them. Such apples are thrown aside
   as culls.”

   There are a great many human culls, men and boys, who, because
   of some injurious habit, have lost their full market value.
   There is the cigaret cull, the boy who is blighting his future
   and depreciating his value as a member of society because of his
   nauseous habit. And there is the whisky and beer cull, the man
   who can not keep out of a saloon; good enough man, many ways,
   but nobody wants to employ him in any responsible position. Then
   we have the obscene cull, the individual who has some rancid
   story to tell to raise a haw-haw among companions as coarse
   and vulgar as himself. He may be a good workman, but morally
   he is a cull. Another man I know is the Sabbath cull. This is
   the man who goes about watering his garden on the Sabbath, or
   driving out in his automobile for the pleasure of the thing;
   who is sometimes seen on the train Sabbath morning with his
   golf-sticks going out to some country club grounds. They may
   have their thousands and live in the best houses on the avenue,
   but they are moral culls. These things are blemishes which show
   the character. (Text.)

    (3443)


   =Watchfulness=--See ASLEEP; DISGUISED DANGER.


                     WATCHFULNESS AGAINST ENEMIES

The conscience and will ought to guard character against its
destructive enemies as the Brazilians guard their houses, according to
the following account:

   Rats have multiplied to such a degree in Brazil that the
   inhabitants rear a certain kind of snake for destroying them.
   The Brazilian domestic serpent is the _giboia_, a small
   species of boa about twelve feet in length and of the diameter
   of a man’s arm. This snake, which is entirely harmless and
   sluggish in its movements, passes the entire day asleep at the
   foot of the staircase of the house, scarcely deigning to raise
   its head at the approach of a visitor, or when a strange noise
   is heard in the vestibule. At nightfall the _giboia_ begins
   to hunt, crawling along here and there, and even penetrating
   the space above the ceiling and beneath the flooring. Springing
   swiftly forward, it seizes the rat by the nape and crushes
   its cervical vertebrae. As serpents rarely eat, even when at
   liberty, the _giboia_ kills only for the pleasure of
   killing. It becomes so accustomed to its master’s house that if
   carried to a distance it escapes and finds its way back home.
   Every house in the warmest provinces where rats abound owns its
   _giboia_, a fixture by destination, and the owner of which
   praises its qualities when he wishes to sell or let his house.
   (Text.)--_Scientific American._

    (3444)


                          WATCHING THE KETTLE

   There is a bit of proverbial philosophy afloat to the effect
   that “a watched kettle never boils.” False philosophy this,
   whether taken literally or figuratively. In the one case it
   is an idiotic superstition; in the other, a stupid mistake;
   in either, a humbug and a cheat. Cease to watch your business
   kettle, and what comes of leaving it to take care of itself?
   It either becomes stone-cold or blows up. You don’t want your
   enterprise over-done, and you don’t want it under-done. Your
   object is to strike the golden mean between lukewarmness and
   the explosive point, represented, we will say, by 212 of
   Fahrenheit. How are you to stimulate the contents of your kettle
   up to the right mark--to make them ebullient without turning
   them into a dangerous element--unless you regulate the upward
   tendency judiciously? It is only the neglected business kettle
   that never boils to a good purpose. Suppose Lord Worcester,
   Marquis of Somerset, had not watched his kettle, and so had
   not observed the phenomenon of the flapping lid, forced into
   motion by the pressure of the escaping steam? If the marquis
   had not received that hint from his watched kettle as to the
   latent force of steam, who can tell what deprivation of motive
   power mankind would have undergone? Your moral kettle must be
   looked after, too, or it is more likely to freeze than boil.
   Morality without the warmth of feeling necessary to make it
   active, is not of much use. In fact, all the figurative kettles,
   individual and social, included within the range of human
   hopes and duties, require to be closely watched. The world is
   paved, as one may say, with the wrecks of kettles which would
   have been of incalculable utility if they had been properly
   managed--reformatory kettles, for example, which only require
   the fire of zeal to keep them going, and the guardianship of
   practical common sense to regulate them, in order to become
   valuable utensils in the kitchen of progress. To watch your
   kettle till it boils, and all the time that it is boiling,
   is the only sure way to provide against accidents.--New York
   _Ledger_.

    (3445)


   =Water and Natives=--See MIRACLES, EVIDENTIAL VALUE OF.


                             WATER OF LIFE

   The briny waters of Great Salt Lake have been tried by the
   Southern Pacific Railway for a novel purpose and with remarkable
   success. Stored in tanks the fluid has been hauled over the
   line by water-trains and sprinkled upon the right of way. Under
   this treatment the weeds, the bane of the section-hands, have
   withered and died. After an experiment of sixteen months the
   scheme has now been permanently adopted. This briny water is a
   water which brings death to those things it touches.

There is a water we are told which brings life, higher than any
material life, the water of life. It was made known to the world
through the divine teacher. At Jacob’s well in the center of Palestine
He declared Himself to be the water of life. Those who drink from
natural fountains of water will thirst again, and the strength they
gain, the refreshing they receive, will only be temporary. Those
who come to drink of the true water of life will receive spiritual
refreshing. This life-giving water takes away all foulness from the
soil of the soul, by purifying it, by sweetening it, by enriching it.
The weeds of sin in the soul are best destroyed not by the infusion of
something more noxious, but by the infilling of the sweet graces of
life.

    (3446)

       *       *       *       *       *

   One of the most interesting creatures of California’s great
   desert is the tortoise. Frequently a school of them, that we
   usually think of only in connection with water, are discovered
   afar out in the desert where water is scarce and difficult to
   obtain. Dissection shows that in a convenient place upon their
   body is located a pair of large water-sacks. These the owner
   fills with water as needed and in this way it is kept supplied.

The man who has acquired character and experience so that he has moral
and spiritual reservoirs within is equipped for every emergency. (Text.)

    (3447)

       *       *       *       *       *

   At Huntsville, Ala., is a spring that supplies the whole town
   with an abundance of pure, fresh water. But the wonder of it all
   is that the flow of it is made to operate a wheel that pumps the
   water into the homes of the people.

The supply of water is the power of the water supply. God, who is
the water of life, also sends all we need for the operation of all
activities. (Text.)

    (3448)

       *       *       *       *       *

The sources of the soul’s water of life is in the hill-springs, but one
may have to go down into the depths to find it, as these divers bring
up fresh water out of the ocean:

   The hottest region on earth is on the south western coast of
   Persia, where Persia borders the gulf of the same name. For
   forty consecutive days in the months of July and August the
   thermometer has been known not to fall lower than 100 degrees,
   night or day, and to often run up as high as 128 degrees in
   the afternoon. At Bahrin, in the center of the torrid part of
   the torrid belt, as tho it were nature’s intention to make the
   region as unbearable as possible, no water can be obtained from
   digging wells one hundred to two hundred or even five hundred
   feet deep, yet a comparatively numerous population contrive to
   live there, thanks to copious springs which break forth from
   the bottom of the gulf, more than a mile from shore. The water
   from these springs is obtained by divers, who dive to the bottom
   and fill goat-skins with the cooling liquid and sell it for a
   living. The source of these submarine fountains is thought to
   be in the green hills of Osman, some five or six hundred miles
   away.--_Public Opinion._

    (3449)

   See SURFACE LIVES; SPRINGS OF LIFE.


   =Waters, Lake=--See RENEWAL.


   =Waters, Tempestuous=--See ADVERSITY.


                           WAY, DIRECTION OF

   Years ago a young man in Providence, R. I., took up a loose
   leaf of a Bible to use for a wrapping. “Don’t use that,” said a
   friend, “it contains the words of life.” The young man put the
   leaf in his pocket. Later, taking it out again, he said, “I will
   see what kind of life it is that that leaf tells about.” The
   words in Daniel 12:13 caught his eye, and he read, “But go thou
   thy way till the end be, for thou shalt rest, and stand in thy
   lot at the end of the days.” “I wonder what my way is and where
   it will end?” he asked himself, and the reflection at length led
   him to a new life.

    (3450)


   =Way, Knowing The=--See FAMILIARITY.


                              WAY OF GOD

    Could I but know each step that I
      Must tread unto the end;
    Were I to have life’s devious chart,
      Complete, placed in my hand,
    With every burden there portrayed,
      And every task well planned,
    The joys to know, the griefs to bear,
      The causes to defend,
    How automatic life would be!

      Thy way is best, hold thou the chart,
        Permit me but to know
      Each day, the duties to perform,
        Each hour, the way to go;
    And I, thy will, shall strive to do,
        As faith e’er stronger grows,
      And knowledge into wisdom blends,
       As stream to river flows,
      Until at last I meet with thee.

    --FRANK L. CONNOR, _The Progress Magazine_.

    (3451)


                            WAY, THE RIGHT

   Wakutemani, a Sioux warrior, was an acknowledged leader among
   the young Indians of his tribe. He heard a woman missionary
   tell the gospel story, but tho he felt strangely drawn to
   Christianity, he threw himself more ardently into the heathen
   dances and practises. One day he said to the missionary, “I will
   try your way without leaving the old way for a year, and at the
   end of that time I will follow the way that has satisfied me.”
   She taught him to pray and gave him directions for living a
   clean, straight life. At the end of the year Wakutemani appeared
   painted and be-feathered to lead the young braves in the old
   war-dance. The dance was wild and calculated to awaken all the
   savage instincts; but during a pause in drum-beating, Wakutemani
   stept into the center of the circle and motioned for silence. “I
   said I would try both ways. This way does not satisfy me. If any
   others feel as I do, let them follow me.” Two young warriors,
   Many Bulls and White Sitting Buffalo, rose silently and followed
   him out of the ring. They went to the mission house and said
   to the missionary, “We wish to follow your way. Ours does not
   satisfy.” All three have now many years of consistent Christian
   life to their credit, and one has passed to his reward. (Text.)

    (3452)


   =Way We Look at Things, The=--See MOODS DETERMINING DESIRES.


   =Wayfarer, The=--See PILGRIMS, THE.


   =Wayside Ministry=--See CONTROL, DIVINE.


                         WAYWARD, SEEKING THE

Dr. J. Wilbur Chapman tells this story:

   On one of the last Sundays that I spent in Philadelphia an
   Englishman gave an address to our Sunday-school. He told how a
   young girl had gone away to live a life of sin. He said, “Her
   mother came to my minister and asked him to find her daughter.
   The minister said, ‘Bring me every picture that you have of
   yourself!’ She brought him every picture and the minister dipt
   his pen in the red ink and wrote underneath the sweet face
   these words: ‘Come back.’ These pictures were placed in mission
   stations and halls. One night the girl, on entering one of these
   halls, found herself face to face with the picture. As she saw
   that sweet face that had looked down into hers with love, her
   eyes were blinded with tears, and when she brushed the tears
   away she read the two words, ‘Come back.’ She made her way out
   to the edge of the city, waited till night had fallen and, going
   up to her old home she put her hand upon the latch of the door
   and, behold, it yielded! She had no sooner crossed the threshold
   than she was in her mother’s arms. The first greeting she had
   from her mother was this: ‘My dear, this door has never been
   fastened since you went away.’” (Text.)

    (3453)


   =Weak Will and Whisky=--See LAST RESORT.


                         WEAKNESS AND STRENGTH

    Storms may rend the giant oak
      Yet may pass the floweret by;
    Feeble lives may long be spared,
      Strongest men may soonest die.

    --PASTOR CLARK.

    (3454)


                      WEAKNESS, CONSIDERATION FOR

The dialog below indicates a good way of practising the Pauline
injunction in Phil. 2:4:

   “Here, boy, let me have a paper.” “Can’t.” “Why not? I heard you
   crying them loud enough to be heard at the city hall.” “Yes,
   but that was down t’other block, ye know, where I hollered.”
   “What does that matter? Come, now, no fooling; I’m in a hurry.”
   “Couldn’t sell you a paper on this here block, mister, ’cause it
   b’longs to Limpy. He’s just up at the furdest end now. You’ll
   meet him.” “And who is Limpy? And why does he have this block?”
   “Cos us other kids agreed to let him have it. Ye see, it’s a
   good run, ’count of the offices all along, and the poor chap is
   that lame he can’t git around lively like the rest of us, so we
   agreed that the first one caught sellin’ on his beat should be
   thrashed. See?” “Yes, I see. You have a sort of brotherhood
   among yourselves?” “Well, we’re goin’ to look out for a little
   cove what’s lame, anyhow.” “There comes Limpy now. He’s a
   fortunate boy to have such friends.” The gentleman bought two
   papers of him, and went on his way down town, wondering how many
   men in business would refuse to sell their wares in order to
   give a weak, halting brother a chance in the field. (Text.)

    (3455)


                           WEAKNESS, HIDDEN

   A tiny worm may pierce the heart of a young tree, and the bark
   may hide the secret gash. But as the days go on the rain will
   cut one fiber and the heat another, and when years have passed,
   some time when a soft zephyr goes sighing through the forest,
   the great tree will come crashing down. For at last nature will
   hunt out every hidden weakness.--NEWELL DWIGHT HILLIS.

    (3456)


                                WEALTH

Harold S. Symmes, in _Pearson’s Magazine_, writes:

    Give of thyself. Man’s wealth depends,
    Not on the pence he holds and hoards,
    Not on the gift he well affords,
    But on the spirit-gold he spends.

    (3457)

       *       *       *       *       *

The danger of wealth lies in its tendency to smother sympathy and exalt
selfishness.

   Dr. W. B. Wright says that Henry Heine, the Jew, one of the
   most sparkling talkers in Europe, sat silent at a banquet
   until his Christian hostess asked, with some anxiety, “Why are
   you so dumb?” He answered, “I am studying a problem which I
   can not solve. I have been looking at these gold dishes, this
   fine linen, these splendid waiters, your great diamonds, and
   wondering what you Christians are going to do with the camel
   question.” (Text.)

    (3458)


                            WEALTH AND WORK

The following account, indicating great motherly wisdom, is from a
despatch from Chicago to the daily papers:

   If Leonard Loeffler, six years old, has fallen heir to a fortune
   of $1,000,000 his mother will be sorry. It has been reported
   among the relatives of the late William Loeffler that his will,
   which will be probated this week, bequeaths his entire fortune,
   amounting to $1,000,000, to his grandson, Leonard, who is the
   son of Mr and Mrs. Frank Loeffler, and this intimation moved
   Mrs. Loeffler to express the hope that her son might not inherit
   riches.

   “I do not want any son of mine to inherit a million dollars,”
   declared Mrs. Loeffler.

   “Why?” she was asked.

   “Because I do not think it does a child any good to have riches
   which he has not earned. If Leonard can get a fortune by working
   for it the way his grandfather had to do I shall be the proudest
   mother in the world, but there is no reason why he should have
   wealth unless he does earn it. I want my boy to earn what he
   gets. I don’t want him to get $1,000,000 for nothing. That is
   how much I think of money. It spoils children and removes the
   incentive for work, and it is work that shapes a career.”

    (3459)


                          WEALTH, COMPARATIVE

   A man who gets a million wants another million. If he gets ten
   millions then he wants to be as rich as Rockefeller. And then
   he wants the whole world fenced in and fixt up for him. What
   if a man is as rich as Rockefeller? What is that compared with
   the State of New York? And suppose a man owned the whole State
   of New York, what is that compared with the balance of America?
   And suppose one man owned the whole United States, what is that
   compared with the balance of the world? And suppose a man owned
   this whole world? Why, you could put two such worlds in your
   pocket, and go out to the dog star and stay all night, and you
   wouldn’t have enough to pay your hotel bill. This whole thing is
   comparative.--“Popular Lectures of Sam P. Jones.”

    (3460)


   =Wealth Diminishing the Smiles=--See POVERTY.


                         WEALTH, RIGHT USE OF

   Some years ago an American gentleman was driving past one of the
   beautiful old homes in rural England, standing in its stately
   park. He asked the driver who lived there. “Oh,” said the man,
   “we used to have lots of aristocratic company there. They had
   plenty of money and they spent it freely. We poor folks were
   well off then. But now the place belongs to a woman, and she is
   a Methodist, and everything is going to the bad.” So spoke the
   countryman, and from his little view this loss of luxury and
   extravagance was all wrong, even for the poor man. But meanwhile
   there was another side to the picture. That estate also
   included a large tenement district in one of the worst portions
   of London. In wretched hovels, surrounded by saloons and low
   resorts, the miserable people paid their rents, exorbitant for
   such quarters, and these rents supplied the funds for the luxury
   and extravagance of the former owner. But now what has happened?
   The lady who owns the estate to-day is using her revenues, not
   for her own luxuries, but in bettering these homes, in driving
   out these saloons, and in creating a new spirit of love between
   her and her tenants. A few country yokels get less to spend
   for drink, but a great city population has more joy in living,
   and the bitter class distinction between riches and poverty
   is lessened.--DONALD SAGE MACKAY, “The Threshold of
   Religion.”

    (3462)


   =Wealth Statistics=--See MONEY-POWER IN CANADA; MONEY-POWER IN THE
      UNITED STATES.


   =Weapons Displaced=--See WARFARE, ANTIQUATED.


   =Weather Forecast=--See PROGNOSTICATION OF WEATHER.


   =Weather Influencing Crime=--See CRIME, EPIDEMICS OF.


   =Weather, The, and the Spider=--See INDICATOR, AN INSECT.


   =Weaving=--See WEB OF LIFE.


                              WEB OF LIFE

   Sit down by the side of an Old World lace-maker for a few
   moments. Fifty or a hundred bobbins, or spools, hang around a
   cushion in which there is a forest of upright pins. Every bobbin
   hangs by a thread that runs toward and among the pins. The
   onlooker sees the worker throw one bobbin over another, as tho
   she were playing with them. But how she knows which bobbin to
   pick up, and where to toss it, is a mystery. Out of the great
   complex of pins and threads comes a beautiful lace pattern,
   regular and beautiful. So the divine Weaver takes one and
   another of us, ordering us here and there, but keeping us always
   attached, like the lace-maker’s thread, to a definite purpose.
   As we look back over the past, we can see the wonderful pattern
   and perfect work of the weaver. Just what he is working out,
   for us and with us, now, we can not discern. But the lesson of
   the past is that the future will be good, and we can trust the
   Weaver of the indefinite to do all things well.

    (3463)


                          WEALTH, INCREASE OF

The great increase of wealth in the United States through a period of
eight years (1900–1908) is shown in the tables below. Does it not mean
a corresponding increase of national responsibility?

    (3461)

  [Illustration: _Copyright, Funk & Wagnalls Company._]


   =Wedding Incident=--See RENUNCIATION.


   =Wedge, The Entering=--See SABBATH DESECRATION GRADUAL.


                            WEED DESTROYER

Man’s enemies are not by any means confined to those he meets in his
daily work. He has soul enemies which he has to reckon with constantly.
Just as sure as the farmer can depend on a certain preparation to kill
weeds, so can man depend upon a higher power to keep down and destroy
our open and secret sins.

   There is no dispute that we must meet the weed question with a
   certainty of success and at the same time it must be done in a
   very economical manner. In addition to what we may do with our
   cultivators and weeders and the growing of such crops as rye
   and winter wheat, by which we can destroy a certain class of
   weeds before they mature seed, we can also add that there is a
   system of weed destruction which is found in spraying. This is
   a matter which has come to the knowledge of men during the past
   few years. I learn from my reading that the first step in this
   direction was taken by a party in France. From that beginning
   it was taken up by men here in America, and it has now assumed
   a very practical form. The first spray was copper sulfate, or
   blue-stone, but this would be somewhat difficult to obtain. The
   present material which is largely used is a by-product turned
   out by the steel-mills. This is called sulfate of iron. This by
   product has been thrown away, but now it can be used for the
   destruction of weeds by making a solution of it and spraying
   fields that are infested with a certain class of weeds.--O.
   C. GREGG, _The Northwestern Agriculturist_.

    (3464)


                        WEEDS, WARFARE AGAINST

Charles H. Spurgeon once said:

   An old wall is so interpenetrated--every nook, crack and
   crevice--by the notorious ivy that, tho you may cut the vine at
   the roots, you can never thoroughly destroy it, till the wall
   itself is leveled.

   Most weeds spread chiefly from their seeds, hence care should be
   taken to prevent the formation of weed-seeds. The more thorough
   we are in keeping out weeds, the easier our work. While we may
   not hope to get rid of all weeds, we may greatly lessen their
   numbers by keeping up a continual warfare against them.

    (3465)


   =Weighing Effects=--See PROBATION.


                      WEIGHT DIMINISHED BY ASCENT

A writer, speaking of variation to be seen in the column of mercury in
a barometer, says:

   If you prop up the tube, and watch it carefully from day to day,
   you will find that the height of the column of mercury will
   continually vary. If you live at the sea-level, or thereabouts,
   it will sometimes rise more than thirty inches above the level
   of the mercury in the cup, and frequently fall below that
   height. If you live on the top of a high mountain, or on any
   high ground, it will never reach thirty inches, will still be
   variable, its average height less than if you lived on lower
   ground; and the higher you get the less will be this average
   height of the mercury.

   The reason of this is easily understood. When we ascend a
   mountain we leave some portion of the atmosphere below us,
   and of course less remains above; this smaller quantity must
   have less weight and press the mercury less forcibly. If the
   barometer tells the truth, it must show this difference; and
   it does so with such accuracy that by means of a barometer, or
   rather of two barometers--one at the foot of the mountain and
   one on its summit--we may, by their difference, measure the
   height of the mountain provided we know the rules for making the
   requisite calculations.

The higher one ascends, the less weight oppresses the climber. This
is a truth also of the moral life. The higher one ascends, the less
obstacles and weights he encounters. In the valley the demoniac
writhes; on the mountain top Christ appears in His glory.

    (3466)


   =Weight Yielding to Persistency=--See PERSEVERANCE.


   =Welcome Home=--See SONG AS A WELCOME HOME.


   =Well-digging=--See MIRACLES, EVIDENTIAL VALUE OF.


   =Well Done=--See EARLY RELIGION.


   =Well Known, The, Unknown=--See LOCAL PRIDE.


   =White Plague=--See TUBERCULOSIS.


   =White Robes=--See BIBLE CUSTOMS TO-DAY.


   “=White Slaves=”--See GIRLS, TRAFFIC IN.


                         WHOLE, SEEING THINGS

Our lives should be so organized and ordered as to move on at God’s
pace so that they will produce a whole effect, a unitary total. Some
men live by jerks, showing no conviction between to-day and yesterday.

   If a spark or point of flame be rapidly swung around in a
   circular path it is no longer seen as a spark or point, but as
   a continuous circle. Drops of falling rain appear to the eye as
   continuous slanted lines or streams. This is due to the fact
   that the motion is too rapid to enable the eye to compass the
   diameter of the rain-drop, or the spark, before it has moved the
   distance of its diameter to a new position.

    (3467)


                               WHOLENESS

   A Chicago tailor displays a sign which announces that he makes
   trousers at “$1.75 per leg.” Inquiry reveals the fact that altho
   he uses a goose he is not foolish enough to furnish trousers
   with only one leg. One can not get trousers at his shop except
   their two legs be properly sewed together and one pays $3.50 for
   them. But the tailor compels editors to read his sign.

This fable teaches that two things even apparently complete when
separate ought to be brought together if they are to be made practical.

    (3468)


                        WHOLENESS OF CHARACTER

   Foster, the distinguished essayist, said to a friend one day,
   “There is a want of continuity in your social character. You
   seem broken into fragments.” To this plain dealing the gentleman
   replied good-naturedly, “Well, I sparkle in fragments.” “But,”
   rejoined Foster, “how much better to shine whole, like a mirror.”

As the glory of gems is realized best when shown in a splendid
necklace, so virtues impress most when many are combined in unity in
the one character.

    (3469)


                              WILFULNESS

   Young America in feathers is almost as bumptious and
   self-assertive and needs almost as much guidance as Young
   America in flannels and lawns. Tho the parents may be as wise as
   Solomon, the youngster will be foolish and headstrong; he will
   call and shout when enemies are near; he will leave the nest
   before his wings are ready for service, and so place himself at
   the mercy of cats and other prowlers. As soon as he has even
   partial use of his wings he will wander into a thousand dangers
   and draw his devoted parents after him, for they can not desert
   him, and he will not heed their coaxing. In such cases the
   distracted parents have been known to attack and beat off their
   great enemy, the cat, and even to fly at man himself, sometimes
   with success.--OLIVE THORNE MILLER, “The Bird Our
   Brother.”

    (3470)


   =Will, Doing God’s=--See TEMPERATURE.


                              WILL OF GOD

The following verses are by John Hay:

    Not in dumb resignation, we lift our hands on high;
    Not like the nerveless fatalist, content to do and die.
    Our faith springs like the eagle’s, who soars to meet the sun,
    And cries exulting unto thee, “O Lord, Thy will be done.”

    When tyrant feet are trampling upon the common weal,
    Thou dost not bid us bend and writhe beneath the iron heel.
    In thy name we assert our right by sword or tongue or pen,
    And even the headsman’s ax may flash thy message unto men.

    Thy will! It bids the weak be strong; it bids the strong be just;
    No lips to fawn, no hand to beg, no brow to seek the dust.
    Whenever man oppresses men beneath the liberal sun
    O Lord, be there! Thine arm made bare, thy righteous will be done.
    (Text.)

    (3471)


   =Will, Our, and God’s=--See TEMPERATURE.


                              WILL POWER

   In “Louis Lambert” Balzac describes certain forces, when they
   take possession of strong personalities, as “rivers of will.”
   There is an impetus in these potential men which sweeps away
   all obstacles and rolls on with the momentum of a great stream.
   In men of genius the same tireless activity, the same forceful
   habit, are often found; nothing daunts them; nothing subdues
   them.--_Christian Union._

    (3472)

       *       *       *       *       *

   The late Lord Beaconsfield, in an address before the Literary
   and Scientific Institute of London, in 1844, on his early life,
   gave utterance to these impressive words:

   “Man can be what he pleases. Every one of you can be exactly
   what he designs to be. I have resolved to hold a certain
   position, and if I live, I will.”

   We do not know what that position was that Disraeli refers to,
   but we do know that he attained to the highest position possible
   to any man in England. He had much to contend with. He was of
   a Jewish family, but by the remarkable power of his will he
   ejected the Jew blood from his veins and pumped the blue blood
   of England in. He climbed into the seat next to the throne of
   the queen herself.

In contrast what a small conception some men have of their
opportunities and privileges.

    (3473)

       *       *       *       *       *

   People will insist on living, sometimes, tho manifestly
   moribund. In Dr. Elder’s life of Kane, you will find a case of
   this sort, told by Dr. Kane himself. The captain of a ship was
   dying of scurvy, but the crew mutinied, and he gave up dying for
   the present to take care of them. An old lady in this city, near
   her end, got a little vexed about a proposed change in her will;
   made up her mind not to die just then; ordered a coach; was
   driven twenty miles to the house of a relative, and lived four
   years longer.--OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES.

    (3474)

   See GREATNESS; MIND, THE HUMAN.


                               WILL, THE

God will not force the door of the human heart. The faculty of volition
is a divinely-given prerogative, and our free will is not violated by
any forcible means.

   While the painting by William Holman-Hunt, known as “The Light
   of the World,” was yet in the studio of the painter a visitor
   stood admiring it. Suddenly he asked the artist, “Where is the
   key? I do not see one in the door.” Said Mr. Holman-Hunt, “Ah,
   no; the key is inside, and the door is locked not from without
   but from within. It can only be opened to admit the Savior who
   stands there and knocks if the tenant within chooses to turn the
   key.” The visitor understood the parable. (Text.)

    (3475)

   See MASTERY.


   =Winds as Benefactors=--See NATURE’S RECUPERATIVE POWERS.


                                WINNING

    Young man,
    What is your plan
    Of progress? Are you
    Going to pull through?
    Or will you lie down in the road
    And let your load
    Sink you out of sight in the mud?
    Have you white blood and pale,
    That curdles at the hard word “Fail,”
    And dares not face
    The chances of the race?
    Or, have you red, clear red,
    The good strong color
    All the great have shed
    In deed or thought,
    For every triumph wrought
    Out of what seemed full
    Of the impossible?
    Have you the nerve
    To serve
    Until you can master? To wait
    And work outside the gate
    Until you win
    The strength to open it and enter in?
    Have you the heart to meet
    Defeat
    Day after day,
    And yet hold to the way
    That upward leads,
    And must needs
    Be hard and rough
    To make man tough
    Of sinew and of soul,
    Before he sees the goal?
    Young man,
    Think on these things,
    What each one brings
    Is as you choose it;
    You make take
    The stake,
    Or you may lose it.
    Start in
    To win
    And keep straight in the way
    Unflagging to the end;
    Whatever it may be
    Is victory.

    --WILLIAM J. LAMPTON, _Success_.

    (3476)


                        WISDOM OF THE IGNORANT

   It is related of the celebrated astronomer, Tycho Brahe, that
   one night, on leaving his observatory, he suddenly found himself
   surrounded by a tumultuous crowd which filled the public square.
   Upon inquiring the cause of so great a concourse, they pointed
   out to him, in the constellation of Cygnus, a brilliant star,
   which he, aided by the best telescopes, had never perceived.
   (Text.)

    (3477)


   =Wisdom Rejected=--See INTOLERANCE.


   =Wish, A Boy’s=--See RETRIEVED SITUATION, A.


   =Wishes=--See RETRIEVED SITUATION, A.


   =Wishes Fulfilled=--See EARLY RELIGION.


   =Wit and Business=--See ABBREVIATION.


   =Wit, Ready=--See ECCENTRICITY.


                              WITCHCRAFT

   In two hundred years thirty thousand witches are said to have
   been destroyed in England; and as recently as 1716, when the
   town was enjoying the wit and satire of the “Queen Anne men,” a
   woman and her child nine years of age were hanged at Huntingdon.
   Addison, with a mind that wavered between superstition and good
   sense, said he could not forbear believing “in such a commerce
   with evil spirits as that which we express by the name of
   witchcraft,” while, at the same time, he could “give no credit
   to any particular modern instance of it.” Scotland, which is
   regarded as an enlightened part of the empire, held with the
   utmost tenacity its faith in witchcraft. The Scotch, a vigorous
   people, put their hands to the work heartily. It was easy to
   find victims, since, as we have said already, they tortured
   until they confest. It is calculated that two thousand persons
   were burned in Scotland in the last forty years of the sixteenth
   century. A century later a witch epidemic broke out in the
   village of Mohra, in Sweden. A number of children were said to
   be bewitched, and familiar with the devil, who was described as
   wearing a gray coat, red and blue stockings, a red beard, and a
   high-crowned hat. The witches kept this exacting person supplied
   with children, and if they did not procure him a good many,
   “they had no peace or quiet for him.” The poor wretches were
   doomed to have no more peace or quiet in this world. Seventy
   were condemned to death, and twenty-three were burnt in a single
   fire at Mohra. It is noteworthy that a belief in this frightful
   superstition which destroyed more innocent persons than the
   so-called holy office was held by men of great intellectual
   power--by Erasmus, Bacon, and the judicious Hooker; by Sir
   Edward Coke, Sir Thomas Browne, Baxter, and Sir Matthew Hale.
   And the old belief is not yet extinct in country districts. Only
   recently a man at Totnes accused his father of bewitching, or,
   as a “white witch” called it, “overlooking” his daughter, so
   that she suffered for months from a disease in the arms; and the
   people who live in remote villages may often hear of similar
   cases.--London _Illustrated News_.

    (3478)


                          WITCHES, BELIEF IN

Dr. James B. McCord writes in _Medical Missions_:

   The Zulu baby is born into the fear of witchcraft; in the fear
   of witchcraft he grows up, and when he sickens and is about to
   die, his one thought is that a spell has been cast upon him
   for which the charm can not be discovered. All his life long
   he dreads in lonely places to meet the _inswelabova_--an
   inhuman man, lacking only hair or fur to make him altogether a
   beast--a sort of beast in human form who rides backward on a
   baboon, ready to pounce upon and make medicine of the unwary
   traveler. In mature manhood he suspects his neighbor, his
   friend, his brother, and even his wife of having dealings with
   makers of charms and poisons. He walks with an uneasy feeling
   that an enemy may have put medicine in his path to harm him.
   From every possible source, from earth and from sky, from river
   and from forest, from friend and from foe, he is continually
   apprehensive of evil influence coming upon him and searching for
   a talisman to wear against it.

    (3479)


                          WITNESS OF SERVICE

   On one of the battle-fields of South Africa a young chaplain
   found a Highlander sorely wounded and with life ebbing quickly
   away. He asked him to allow him to pray, but the soldier said
   gruffly, “No, I don’t want prayers. I want water.” The chaplain
   secured, with great difficulty, some water, and then asked the
   refreshed man if he might read a psalm. “No,” said the soldier
   again. “I am too cold to listen to a psalm.” The chaplain
   instantly stript off his coat and wrapt it tenderly round the
   wounded soldier. And then, touched by the chaplain’s sympathy,
   the man turned and said, “Chaplain, if religion makes men like
   you, let’s have that psalm.” When Christians prove themselves
   loving and considerate for the sick and suffering, even the
   hardest heart melts.

    (3480)


                          WIVES OF GREAT MEN

   It is an oft-quoted saying of Dr. Johnson that “a man in general
   is better pleased when he has a good dinner on the table than
   when his wife talks Greek.” Racine had an illiterate wife and
   was accustomed to boastfully declare that she could not read any
   of his tragedies. Dufresny married his washerwoman. Goethe’s
   wife was a woman of mediocre capacity. Heine said of the woman
   he loved, “She has never read a line of my writings and does not
   even know what a poet is.” Therese Lavasseur, the last flame
   of Rousseau, could not tell the time of day. “How many of the
   wise and learned,” says Thackeray, “have married their cooks!
   Did not Lord Eldon, himself the most prudent of men, make a
   runaway match? Were not Achilles and Ajax both in love with
   their servant-maids?” Seven hundred people sat up all night to
   see the beautiful Duchess of Hamilton get in her carriage, but
   would one in a thousand lose a wink of sleep to get a glimpse of
   the learned wife of the pundit Yainavalka, who discoursed with
   the Indian in Sanskrit on the vexed problems of life?--_The
   Interior._

    (3481)


   =Woman Suffrage=--See RETORT, A.


                              WOMANLY WIT

   Foster, the State news paragrapher of the Cleveland _Press_,
   published a paragraph to this effect: “A Marion girl started
   her graduating essay as follows: ‘I am fairly worried out with
   the incessant pratings of the lords of creation on the duties
   and sphere of woman.’” The paragraph closed with the somewhat
   dangerous assertion that the editor would bet a new spring hat
   that the author of that discourse on woman’s sphere could not
   bake a loaf of bread. Two days later Mr. Foster received from
   Marion a large box. It contained sundry light loaves of bread
   and cake marvelously toothsome. An accompanying affidavit bore
   the solemn oath of the sweet girl graduate (who possesses the
   pretty name of May Williams) that she had, unaided, made the
   wheat-bread marked “Exhibit A,” the two specimens of cornbread
   marked “Exhibit B,” and the chocolate, “Exhibit C.” The notary’s
   seal of office was affixt to the affidavit, and it was settled
   beyond a doubt in Mr. Foster’s mind that his wager had been
   accepted. He therefore went out and lavished his week’s salary
   on a new spring hat.

    (3482)


                            WOMAN’S SPHERE

    She’s a woman with a mission; ’tis her heaven-born ambition to
      reform the world’s condition, you will please to understand.
    She’s a model of propriety, a leader in society, and has a great
      variety of remedies at hand.
    Each a sovereign specific, with a title scientific, for the cure
      of things morbific that vex the people sore;
    For the swift alleviation of the evils of the nation is her
      foreordained vocation on this sublunary shore.
    And while thus she’s up and coming, always hurrying and humming,
      and occasionally slumming, this reformer of renown,
    Her neglected little Dicky, ragged, dirty, tough, and tricky, with
      his fingers soiled and sticky, is the terror of the town.

    (Text.)--_Tit-Bits._

    (3483)


                           WOMAN’S STRENGTH

   There is no physical reason why a woman should be more feeble
   or diseased than a man. Stanley was furnished with two hundred
   negro women to carry his stuff into the interior of Africa,
   and he found them the best porters he had employed, altho
   he felt very doubtful about accepting their services when
   first proposed. The Mexican Indian woman is able to carry her
   household goods on her back with two or three babies on top
   when a change of location is desirable. Meanwhile her husband
   trudges bravely along carrying his gun. On the continent of
   Europe most of the heavy work is done by women. In Vienna women
   and dogs are frequently hitched together, and sometimes a woman
   is yoked with a cow to draw a load of produce to the city. Many
   of these peasant women will carry upon their heads a load of
   vegetables that few American men could easily lift. These women
   have the muscles of the waist and trunk thoroughly developed.
   Despite their hardships, they do not suffer from the backache
   or displacements, or other ailments which the women who dress
   fashionably are constantly afflicted with.--_Phrenological
   Journal._

    (3484)


   =Women, Courage of=--See BRAVERY OF WOMEN.


   =Women Fighting Disease=--See TUBERCULOSIS.


   =Women Graduates=--See ALUMNÆ OCCUPATIONS.


                           WOMEN IN BONDAGE

   In Korea woman is a useful member of society, for material
   interests hang on her hand. Once, on a walk by the city wall, we
   saw a man sitting on a stone weeping. His was a full-mouthed,
   heart-broken cry, as tho the world had given way under him.
   “Why,” we asked--“why all this fuss?” He looked vacantly at us
   for a moment, and then resumed where he had left off. We found
   that the trouble was about a woman, his wife; she had left him.
   “How he must have loved her to cry like that,” remarked a lady
   in the party. It was translated, but he resented it. “Loved her?
   I never loved her, but she made my clothes and cooked my food;
   what shall I do? boo-hoo-oo,” louder and more impressively than
   ever.--JAMES S. GALE, “Korea in Transition.”

    (3485)


   =Women in Finance=--See BUSINESS, RELIGION IN.


   =Women in Persia=--See PERSIA, MOSLEM SITUATION IN.


                          WOMEN, INJUSTICE TO

   She was a woman, worn and thin, whom the world condemned for a
   single sin; they cast her out of the king’s highway and passed
   her by as they went to pray. He was a man, and more to blame,
   but the world spared him a breath of shame; beneath his feet he
   saw her lie, but he raised his head and passed her by. They were
   the people who went to pray at the temple of God on the holy
   day. They scorned the woman, forgave the man. It was ever thus
   since the world began. Time passed on, and the woman died, on
   the cross of shame was crucified; but the world was stern and
   would not yield, and they buried her in the potter’s field. The
   man died, too; and they buried him in a casket of cloth with a
   silver rim, and said, as they turned from his grave away: “We’ve
   buried an honest man to-day.” Two mortals knocked at heaven’s
   gate and stood face to face to inquire their fate. He carried a
   passport with earthly sign, and she a pardon from Love divine.
   O, we who judge ’twixt virtue and vice, which think ye entered
   paradise? Not he whom the world had said would win, for the
   woman alone was ushered in.

    (3486)


                          WOMEN JUDGING WOMEN

   At a large dinner party in Washington, a lady sitting next to
   William M. Evarts, then Secretary of State, said to him: “Mr.
   Evarts, don’t you think that a woman is the best judge of other
   women?” “Ah, madam,” said Mr. Evarts, “she is not only the best
   judge, but the best executioner.”

    (3487)


                            WOMEN, WARLIKE

   In warlike times, when battle was the business of life and
   victory over a foe the highest honor that could be had, when
   home in the true sense there was none, and when castles were
   less houses for pleasant living than strongholds to shelter
   raiders and resist assault, women were as heroic as their age.
   If they were not so accurate in their aim as the archers, of
   whom it was said every English bowman “bore under his girdle
   twenty-four Scots,” they knew how to man the ramparts and defend
   the bridges as well as their lords themselves. Womanliness in
   the bower, dignity in the hall, courage in the castle--that was
   the whole duty of these noble women of a rude but manly age,
   and to their example, their influence and their shaping power
   as mothers England owes much of her greatness and half of her
   strength. Letting Boadicea pass as an example of the feminine
   fighting blood, we find in Dame Nicola de Camville an early
   specimen of the warlike political woman. She took the royal
   side in the famous war with the barons, and held Lincoln Castle
   against Gilbert de Gaunt, first for King John and afterward
   for Henry III, till the battle called Lincoln Fair broke her
   power. The beautiful Countess of Salisbury, she who was so
   ardently beloved by the third Edward, was another instance of
   feminine daring, in her case coupled with the loveliest and
   most graceful sweetness. Black Agnes was again a heroine of
   the virago type, and Queen Philippa, Queen Margaret, and others
   of the same kind honored their adopted nationality by their
   courage and devotion. Meaner women were as brave. In a skirmish
   at Naworth (1570) Leonard Dacres had in his army “many desperate
   women, who there gave the adventure of their lives and fought
   right stoutly.”--_The Fortnightly Review._

    (3488)


                           WOMEN’S FRIVOLITY

   What most women want to-day is a donkey-load of Paris dresses
   for their bodies, an automobile to pull them around, an army of
   servants to hook them up and then to unhook them. The mammonism
   of men to-day is the outer and physical embodiment of the inner
   and essential vulgarity of the whole pleasure-loving mob of
   women on the avenues, with their sipping of cocktails at the
   beginning of the meal in great restaurants, their flashing of
   jewels, their parade of gowns, their killing of time through
   bridge and games of chance. Killing time! When these golden
   hours are more precious than the purple drops of paradise
   itself. Oh, these superficial, frivolous, vapid women, who have
   turned their beautiful bodies into something scarcely better
   than the wire stands that exhibit gowns in merchants’ windows.
   And they use their very beauty as exemption from duty!--N.
   D. HILLIS.

    (3489)


   =Wonders of Nature=--See INSECTS OF REMOTE TIMES.


                         WONDERS UNSEEN BY MAN

   The insect must see a whole world of wonders of which we know
   little or nothing. True, we have microscopes, with which we can
   see one thing at a time if carefully laid upon the stage; but
   what is the finest instrument that can be produced compared
   to that with twenty-five thousand object-glasses, all of them
   probably achromatic, and each one a living instrument, with its
   own nerve-branch supplying a separate sensation. To creatures
   thus endowed with microscopic vision, a cloud of sandy dust
   must appear like an avalanche of massive rock fragments, and
   everything else proportionally monstrous.--W. MATTIEU
   WILLIAMS, “Science in Short Chapters.”

    (3490)


   =Word, Effect of a Tender=--See HEART-HUNGER, SATISFYING.


                            WORD IN SEASON

   Buckingham, the war governor of Connecticut, one day met a young
   man named Simmons as both were walking along the street, and
   putting both hands on the young man’s shoulders, the governor
   said solemnly: “Simmons, we are none of us living as well as
   we ought to,” and passed on. Simmons, as an old man, declared
   that that act had a most powerful and permanent influence on his
   life. (Text.)

    (3491)


                             WORD JUGGLING

   There are three hundred and sixty-five prohibitions in the
   law, said the Rabbins, just as many as there are days in the
   year, and two hundred and forty-eight positive commands,
   corresponding to the number of members of the body, according
   to their anatomy; the whole number making six hundred and
   thirteen precepts. “There can be no more precepts or any less,”
   reasoned the wise Pharisees, “because there are just six hundred
   and thirteen letters in the decalog.” Or if one had not liked
   this interpretation, they would have given him another equally
   satisfactory reason why there should be just six hundred and
   thirteen precepts. In Numbers 15:38, the Jews are commanded to
   wear fringes, called in the Hebrew tsitsith, upon the border
   of their garments. Now, as there are eight threads and five
   knots in each fringe, making the number thirteen, and as the
   letters of the word tsitsith stand in Hebrew for the number six
   hundred, therefore, as was proved before, there must be just
   six hundred and thirteen precepts in the Mosaic law. To such
   silly word jugglery had the Pharisees recourse in placing upon
   men’s shoulders burdens too grievous to be borne.--_The Golden
   Rule._

    (3492)


                           WORD OF GOD FREED

   When Elizabeth of England succeeded to the throne she was
   petitioned to release, according to custom, four or five
   principal prisoners. “Who shall they be?” she asked. The reply
   was: “The four evangelists and the apostle Paul.” (Text.)

    (3493)


                         WORD OF GOD UNIVERSAL

The following is by Frank Dempster Sherman:

    Not only in the Book
      Is found God’s word,
    But in the song of every brook
      And every bird.

    In sun and moon and star
      His message shines!
    The flowers that fleck the green fields are
      His fragrant lines.

    His whisper in the breeze,
      And His the voice
    That bids the leaves upon the trees
      Sing and rejoice.

    Go forth, O soul! nor fear
      Nor doubt, for He
    Shall make the ears of faith to hear--
      The eyes to see.

    (3494)


                          WORD, THE, A HAMMER

   Thor was the god of thunder. The most prized of all his
   possessions was his magic hammer. This was red hot, and always
   returned to his hand ready to be thrown again. He used it to
   drive boundary stakes, and also to punish his enemies. The
   ancient Northern peoples made the sign of the hammer, as later
   Christians did the cross, to ward off evils and to secure
   blessings.

What an allegory, all this, of the Word of God! (Text.)

    (3495)


   =Words=--See GLITTER VERSUS DEPTH.


                                 WORK

   It was while Moses was at his common task that the call came
   to him. This wilderness training was simply a third school
   which he entered to fit him for the great work of his life.
   When God wants a man he usually calls one who is busy among
   the commonplace things of life. Commonplace duties are always
   glorified in God’s sight. When God wanted a prophet he selected
   Amos from among the farmer-shepherds. When He wanted a poet
   He called a lad from keeping sheep. When He wanted an apostle
   He called a swearing tar from mending his net on the beach of
   Galilee. When He wanted a missionary He selected a Paul from
   among the tent-makers. When He wanted a deliverer of Israel He
   called a man from the commonplace duties of the desert. When God
   wanted to show man how much He loved him and honored toil, He
   chose to incarnate Himself in the carpenter of Nazareth.

    “This is the gospel of labor,
    Ring it ye bells of the kirk;
    The Lord of Love, came down from above,
    To live with the men who work;
    This is the rose He planted,
    Here is the thorn-curst soil,
    Heaven is blest, with perfect rest,
    But the blessing of earth is toil.”
    (Text.)

    (3496)

       *       *       *       *       *

   Paul was not ashamed to work with his hands, altho he had been
   brought up at the feet of Gamaliel and taught according to the
   perfect manner of the law. He had not forgotten the custom of
   the Jews, who always taught their sons in early youth to work at
   some trade or handicraft. A true saying is that “an idle brain
   is the devil’s workshop.” Miss Dryer, a Chicago missionary, in
   addressing the ministers’ meeting of that city in behalf of
   girls’ sewing-schools, made the significant statement that in
   all her experience of many years she had never known of a fallen
   woman who knew how to sew. (Text.)

    (3497)

       *       *       *       *       *

    Man’s work is to labor and leaven
    As best he may--earth here with heaven,
    ’Tis work for work’s sake that he’s needing;
    Let him work on and on as speeding
    Work’s end, but not dream of succeeding!
    Because if success were intended,
    Why, heaven would begin ere earth ended.

    --BROWNING.

    (3498)

   See GENIUS AND WORK.


   =Work a Necessity=--See INDUSTRY AND LONGEVITY.


                             WORK AND ART

   Between digging a ditch to drain a meadow and composing a
   sonnet, what is there in common? Nevertheless, if we look
   closely into the matter, the ditch and the sonnet are much the
   same thing. We might even fairly challenge that category of
   “useful” and “fine.” The useful are surely fine, for nothing is
   finer than use; and the fine, if they be not in a high sense
   useful, are not fine after all. The ditch is dug to increase
   the serviceableness to man of nature; the sonnet is composed to
   enable man to discern in nature a beauty (or serviceableness)
   to which he had heretofore been blind. From a broad standpoint,
   there is little to choose between them. The ditch is nothing in
   itself, but neither, strictly speaking, is the sonnet. They are
   both means to ends. The ditch is, perhaps, more distant from
   its end than the sonnet, but it is a link in the same chain.
   Moreover, the ditch will always be an honest ditch, but the
   sonnet may be false or artificial, and in that case counts for
   nothing, or less. The real difference resides in the person
   doing much more than in the thing done. A workman, building
   a wall, may have a perception of the value of the use he is
   performing, or he may not; only in the former case, of course,
   does he deserve the name of artist. The seamstress who plies
   her needle in our attic, or the poor man’s wife who must needs
   wash and scrub and darn and work all day long, and from year’s
   end to year’s end, if she realize the universal bearings of her
   industry, is an artist, and a nobler and more adorable one than
   she who sings for $5,000 a night.--_America._

    (3499)


   =Work and Long Life=--See INDUSTRY AND LONGEVITY.


   =Work as Witness=--See TESTIMONY OF WORK.


                          WORK ATTITUDE, THE

   What is work--work not as mere external performance, but as
   attitude of mind? It signifies that the person is not content
   longer to accept and to act upon the meanings that things
   suggest, but demands congruity of meaning with the things
   themselves. In the natural course of growth, children come to
   find irresponsible make-believe plays inadequate. A fiction
   is too easy a way out to afford content. There is not enough
   stimulus to call forth satisfactory mental response. When
   this point is reached, the ideas that things suggest must be
   applied to the things with some regard to fitness. A small cart,
   resembling a “real” cart, with “real” wheels, tongue and body,
   meets the mental demand better than merely making believe that
   anything which comes to hand is a cart. Occasionally to take
   part in setting a “real” table with “real” dishes brings more
   reward than forever to make believe a flat stone is a table and
   that leaves are dishes. The interest may still center in the
   meanings, the things may be of importance only as amplifying a
   certain meaning. So far the attitude is one of play. But the
   meaning is now of such a character that it must find appropriate
   embodiment in actual things.

   The dictionary does not permit us to call such activities work.
   Nevertheless, they represent a genuine passage of play into
   work. For work (as a mental attitude, not as mere external
   performance) means interest in the adequate embodiment of a
   meaning (a suggestion, purpose, aim) in objective form through
   the use of appropriate materials and appliances. Such an
   attitude takes advantage of the meanings aroused and built up
   in free play, but controls their development by seeing to it
   that they are applied to things in ways consistent with the
   observable structure of the things themselves.

   The point of this distinction between play and work may be
   cleared up by comparing it with a more usual way of stating the
   difference. In play activity, it is said, the interest is in
   the activity for its own sake; in work, it is in the product
   or result in which the activity terminates. Hence the former
   is purely free, while the latter is tied down by the end to be
   achieved.--JOHN DEWEY, “How We Think.”

    (3500)


                            WORK, CHRISTIAN

The verses below are true of every soul who really desires to do God’s
work.

    If we can not be the watchman
      Standing high on Zion’s wall,
    Pointing out the path to heaven,
      Offering life and peace to all;
    With our prayers, and with our bounties
      We can do what heaven demands;
    We can be, like helpful Aaron,
      Holding up the prophet’s hands.

    Do not, then, stand idly waiting,
      For some greater work to do,
    For time is a lazy goddess--
      She will never come to you.
    Go and toil in any vineyard,
      Do not fear to do or dare;
    If you want a field of labor
      You can find it anywhere.

    (3501)


   =Work, Daily=--See MELODY FROM DRUDGERY.


                             WORK DESPISED

   A king desired a fine mosaic picture. The master-artist divided
   the stones from which it was to be constructed among his
   workmen, giving to each his own design. One artist considered
   his fragment too small to notice, and threw away the stone
   intrusted to him, saying, “It is of no worth.” When all the
   work was brought together, his stone was found to be the most
   important of all, the very centerpiece. He lost his place, and
   was branded upon the forehead with the words, “Of no worth,” as
   a penalty for his neglect.

    (3502)


                        WORK DIVINELY INTENDED

   As the clear and sensitive organ of the eye, which holds upon
   its tiny lens the masses of far stars and the mazes of their
   movement, was evidently made for this marvelous function; as
   the nerve of the ear, which takes eloquence, poetry, wit,
   applause, the tone of affection, the crash of the thunder-burst,
   the lively laugh of childish glee, and communicates each with
   instant fidelity to the spirit behind, was manifestly formed for
   exactly this office; so, just as clearly, the personal soul,
   with its judgment and its will, with its deep-seated instincts
   and its eager desires, with its unrest in indolence, and its
   thought that outruns attainment every instant, was made to
   realize its good by working. The date-tree in the desert is
   not more precisely preadjusted to its office!--RICHARD S.
   STORRS.

    (3503)


   =Work in Miniature=--See MINIATURE WORK.


                         WORK PROVING RELIGION

There is a story of a young minister who had just come to be pastor in
a town, and he called on Hiram Golf, the shoemaker.

   “Well, Hiram,” said the minister, “I have come to talk with you
   about the things of God, and I am very glad a man can be in a
   humble occupation and yet be a godly man.” The shoemaker said,
   “Don’t call this occupation humble.” The minister thought he
   had made a mistake, and he said, “Excuse me, I didn’t mean to
   reflect on what you do for a living.” The man replied, “You
   didn’t hurt me, but I was afraid you might have hurt the Lord
   Jesus Christ. I believe the making of that shoe is just as holy
   a thing as your making a sermon. I believe that when I come to
   stand before the throne of God, He is going to say, ‘What kind
   of shoes did you make down on earth?’ And He might pick out
   this very pair, in order to let me look at them in the blazing
   light of the great white throne; and He is going to say to you,
   ‘What kind of sermons did you make?’ and you will have to show
   Him one of your sermons. Now, if I made better shoes than you
   made sermons, I will have a better place in the kingdom of God.”
   (Text.)

    (3504)


   =Work, Quiet, Successful=--See VALUE OF ONE MAN.


                         WORK, THE TRUE WISDOM

   When Frederick Temple, the late Archbishop of Canterbury, was a
   poor boy, wearing patched clothes and patched shoes, he had the
   good fortune to have a wise mother who stimulated and encouraged
   the right kind of ambition, and directed his zeal. One day the
   boy waxed critical over the inconsistency of English spelling,
   when his mother chided him gently: “Freddie, don’t argue;
   do your work.” The lesson was not lost on his open mind. He
   followed the sage advice. And long years after, when as primate
   of all England he had arisen to a position scarcely second
   to any in dignity and influence in the land, he acted on his
   mother’s counsel: “Don’t argue, do your work.”

    (3505)


                           WORK TRANSFORMED

   As the water drops of the storm-clouds are transfigured by the
   sunlight into rainbows, so the lowliest work is transfigured
   by thoughts of God shining through it. So it was with the old
   negro washerwoman who sang, as she climbed the stairs wearily at
   night after her hardest day, “One more day’s work for Jesus.” So
   it was with the Christian child in the mission Sunday-school,
   who was asked, “What are you doing for Jesus?” and replied, “I
   scrubs.”

    (3506)


                          WORK VERSUS WORKER

James Buckham is the author of this poem:

    “What hast thou wrought?” is the world’s demand.
    Where is thy product of brain or hand?
    That presented, the wise world says,
    “Take this place!” and the man obeys.

    Somewhat otherwise measures God,
    Searches the soul with love’s testing-rod;
    Gets its innermost depth and plan;
    Ignores the product, exalts the man!

Whittier, in a similar vein, wrote:

    Not by the page word-painted,
    My life is banned or sainted.
    Deeper than written scroll,
    The colors of the soul,
    Nobler than any fact,
    My wish that failed of act. (Text.)

    (3507)


   =Work, Unrecompensed=--See ILL-PAID WORK.


   =Working Hard=--See ENCOURAGEMENT.


   =Working Men and Church=--See CHRIST APPROVED.


                           WORKING TOGETHER

Faraday, the distinguished chemist, says:

   The change produced by respiration so injurious to us (for we
   can not breathe the air twice over) is the very life and support
   of plants and vegetables growing on the surface of the ground.
   These latter absorb carbon--the leaves taking up the carbon of
   the air to which we have given it in the form of carbonic acid,
   and grow and prosper. Give them a fine air like ours, and they
   could not live in it, but carbon and other matters make them
   grow. All trees and plants get their carbon from the air, which
   carries off what is bad for us and at the same time good for
   them--disease to the one is health to the other. So we are made
   dependents not only on our fellow creatures but on our fellow
   existers as well, all nature being tied together by the law that
   makes one part conduce to the good of another. (Text.)

    (3508)


                           WORKING WITH GOD

    It may not be our lot to wield
    The sickle in the ripened field;
    Nor ours to hear, on summer eves,
    The reaper’s song among the sheaves.

    Yet where our duty’s task is wrought
    In unison with God’s great thought,
    The near and future blend in one,
    And whatso’er is willed is done. (Text.)

    --JOHN G. WHITTIER.

    (3509)


   =Workmanship=--See BEAUTY FROM FRAGMENTS.


                            WORKS DESTROYED

   When Thomas Carlyle was writing his famous history of the French
   Revolution, and when he had the first volume ready for the
   printer’s hands, he one day loaned the manuscript to John Stuart
   Mill, his intimate and admiring friend. This friend’s servant
   girl, seeing the pile on the library floor one day, and wanting
   some kindling, unceremoniously put the whole of it into the
   stove and kindled the fire with it. Thus the priceless labor of
   many years was in a few moments swept away.

   Mill came himself, pale and trembling, to break the news to the
   author. When he heard it, his spirit fairly broke down under the
   terrible disaster.

If the loss of a book is such a calamity, how unspeakably terrible will
it be to have the works of one’s lifetime burned? There are men of whom
the divine word says, “They shall be saved, but their works shall be
burned.”

    (3510)


   =Works, Immortality in One’s=--See IMMORTALITY OF INFLUENCE.


                            WORLD IMPROVING

   In the old days the bee-master to reach the honey killed the
   bees, but now he contrives to spare the bees, who continue to
   live on and share their own sweetness. A similar transformation
   is being effected in the hives of human industry. There is an
   attempt to get more justice, fairness, and even mercy, into
   commercial rivalries; to substitute some plan of cooperation for
   the existing competition, if that is possible. That glove-fights
   are being substituted for prize-fights is indeed a slow approach
   to civilization, yet the thinnest gloves are a concession to the
   rising sentiment of humanity; so in business, modern society
   is getting rid of certain naked brutalities of antagonism, and
   giving to reason and compassion a larger place. With aching
   head and aching heart, thousands to-day feel that the struggle
   for gold and bread is bitter enough; yet a better spirit slowly
   emerges, tempering the fiery law.--W. L. WATKINSON,
   “The Transfigured Sackcloth.”

    (3511)


   =World, Need of the=--See YOU.


                        WORLD NOT INDISPENSABLE

During the latter portion of his life, declares a writer in
_Everybody’s Magazine_, Emerson seemed to live much in the world
of souls, and came back with difficulty to take cognizance of physical
affairs.

   At the time of the Millerite excitement, he was walking one day
   down Bromfield Street, Boston, when he met one of his friends,
   who remarked: “This is the day when the world is to come to an
   end, according to the Millerities.” The Sage of Concord looked
   reflectively at his friend for a moment, and replied: “Ah, well,
   we can do without it.”

    (3512)


                     WORLD, THE, IN THE CHRISTIAN

   A ship in the water is good, but water in the ship is bad. A
   transatlantic liner, years ago, owing to some defect in one
   of its pumps, began to pump water into the ship instead of
   pumping it out. As they thought the ship had sprung a leak,
   they pumped all the harder, with the result that the ship only
   filled the faster. Presently the water rose so that their fires
   were extinguished. Then, thinking that they were going to the
   bottom, they abandoned the ship. Later on, some Englishmen found
   her tossing in mid-ocean, water-logged. Going on board, they
   ascertained the trouble, pumped her out, brought her in and
   secured $300,000 salvage money.

Just so the Christian in the world is good, but the world in the
Christian is bad. The believer who allows the evil practises of the
sinful world to dominate his heart can not possibly succeed; and
yet there are men who, like those in the ship above mentioned, seem
to pump the world into themselves as fast as they can.--A. F.
SCHAUFFLER, _The Christian Herald_.

    (3513)


   =Worldliness=--See AMUSEMENTS.


   =Worldliness, Vanity of=--See CHURCH INDISPENSABLE.


   =Worldly Life=--See PLEASURE, MOCKERY OF.


   =Worry=--See THINGS.


                             WORRY, DON’T

      Do not hurry,
      Do not worry,
    As this world you travel through,
      No regretting,
      Fuming, fretting,
    Ever can advantage you.
      Be content with what you’ve won,
      What on earth you leave undone,
    There are plenty left to do.

    (3514)


                           WORSHIP, ENFORCED

Some ministers would welcome the method described below for our
churches at home:

   Some interesting new methods and agencies are noticed in the
   _Baptist Missionary Magazine_ as having been introduced
   into the missionary church at Sinwaugan, Philippine Islands.
   A band of policemen has been instituted to see that all the
   members of the church attend the services on time. These
   policemen hunt up delinquents, and if they can not give good
   reasons for their absence, bring them to church. In the church
   they keep order among the throngs of children who attend.

    (3515)


                          WORSHIPER, A MOTHER

   One of the first Christian novels of Japan tells of a widow,
   whose only son was a careless, aimless boy. His mother tried
   to inspire him with the lofty purpose of reestablishing their
   house, then in danger of becoming extinct. Her efforts were all
   in vain, until one day she took him to his father’s grave and
   kneeling there with him, sternly rebuked him in the face of the
   dead for his thoughtless life. Then drawing a dirk she handed it
   to him with this startling order: “Die, coward! Die with this
   dirk here and now! Then I will follow you!” In this way this
   Spartan-like mother aroused her boy so that he became a great
   and successful man. He never could cease to love and reverence
   her. He said: “The fire of my mother’s face burned into my soul
   and gave me the supreme decision of my life. Therefore, I am
   a worshiper of my mother.” This represents some of the best
   traditions of Japanese family life, and with such a basis, it
   is easy to see how welcome with many is the Christian truth,
   which emphasizes the duties of parents and recognizes the rights
   even of children.--JOHN H. DE FOREST, “Sunrise in the
   Sunrise Kingdom.”

    (3516)


   =Worshiping Idols=--See FETISHISM.


                           WORTH, ESTIMATING

The difference between a good job and a bad one is nothing--unless the
man with a good one is a good man.

   A certain office in Chicago had this fact demonstrated. There
   were two men on the pay-roll who had an equal opportunity for a
   new place, a place much in advance of that held by either. One
   of the men had a good job, the place of assistant to the head of
   a department. The other was only a clerk. The first man got $30
   a week, the second was paid only $18. When the time came for the
   head to look around and select the man for the new position his
   eyes fell on the two under consideration, and he began to sum up
   their merits.

   “My idea of a man for this new place,” he said, “is one who
   has proved by his steadiness, industry, and economy that he
   is ambitious, that he wants to and means to do well, and who,
   generally speaking, has shown that he’s a strong character. Now,
   while Johnson, at $30 a week, is obviously first choice for
   the place, I won’t give it to him until I’ve compared him with
   Nagle, who’s only getting $18. I’m going to look them over first
   and find out who really is the bigger man of the two.”

   A week later the office was surprized and shocked to see Nagle,
   the clerk, get the coveted place.

   “Why in the world did you do it?” a friend asked the boss.

   The answer was short and to the point. “I looked ’em up, and
   found that Nagle was a better man than Johnson, in spite of
   the fact that the latter had the bigger job. Johnson has been
   getting $30 a week for two years. He’s single, but he hasn’t got
   a cent of savings in the bank. Nagle has been getting $18 for
   the same length of time. But Nagle has been taking care of his
   money, and now he has $300 to his credit in his savings account.
   Johnson goes out and blows in his money and doesn’t give a
   single thought to the future. Nagle plants a few dollars every
   week. Do you suppose there can be any question as to the ability
   of these two men?”

   And when you think it over this is about as good a test of worth
   as any that could be made.--Chicago _Tribune_.

    (3517)


                            WOUNDS, CURIOUS

   Simon Stone was shot in nine places, and as he lay for dead the
   Indians made two hacks with a hatchet to cut his head off. He
   got well, however, and was a lusty fellow in Cotton Mather’s
   time. Jabez Musgrove was shot with a bullet that went in at
   his ear and came out at his eye on the other side. A couple of
   bullets went through his body also. Jabez got well, however, and
   lived many years. _Per contra_, Colonel Rossiter, cracking
   a plum-stone with his teeth, broke a tooth and lost his life.
   We have seen physicians dying, like Spigelius, from a scratch;
   and a man who had had a crowbar shot through his head alive and
   well. These extreme cases are warnings. But you can never be too
   cautious in your prognosis, in view of the great uncertainty
   of the course of any disease not long watched, and the many
   unexpected turns it may take.--OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES,
   JR.

    (3518)


   =Wounds of Christ=--See STIGMATA.


                           WOUNDS THAT SPEAK

   The advocates in ancient Rome gave effect to their appeals by
   producing on fit occasions the living image of the client’s
   misery, and his claims on the compassion of the courts. Thus,
   when Antony was defending against the charge of pecuniary
   corruption, Aquilius, who had successfully conducted the
   campaign in Sicily against the fugitive slaves, and was unable
   to disprove or refute the charge, in the midst of his harangue,
   after appealing in impassioned tones to the services rendered
   to his country by the brave soldier who stood by his side--he
   suddenly unloosed the folds of his client’s robe, and showed
   to his fellow citizens who sat upon his trial the scars of the
   wounds which had been received in their behalf. They could not
   resist the effect of such a sight, and Aquilius was acquitted.
   (Text.)--CROAKE JAMES, “Curiosities of Law and Lawyers.”

Many a heart, like that of Thomas, has been softened and convinced by
the sight of the marks of Christ’s passion.

    (3519)


   =Writing Life Records=--See RECORDS, LIVING.


                           WRONG RETROACTIVE

    For he that wrongs his friend
    Wrongs himself more, and ever bears about
    A silent court of justice in his breast,
    Himself the judge and jury, and himself
    The prisoner at the bar, ever condemned.

    (Text.)--TENNYSON.

    (3520)


   =Wrongs, Little=--See LITTLE SINS.


   =X-Ray as Detective=--See DETECTION; EXPOSURE.




                                   Y


                        YEARS, THE UNRETURNING

    Each day the tide flows out and in,
      Each day the gray ships leave,
    Each night the mute-lipped stars appear,
      Each night the waters grieve;
    But from their distant harbor home
      Toward which our hearts are yearning,
    No more with laden ships of dreams
      We see the years returning.

    Each year that passed the silent bar
      Went out beyond forever;
    Tho on the heights we watch and wait,
      The ships are sighted never;
    But in our hearts old memories
      Come to the heart’s discerning,
    And comfort us if nevermore
      We find the years returning. (Text.)

    --ARTHUR W. PEACH, _The Sunday-school Times_.

    (3521)


                                  YOU

The personal note in these verses (author unidentified) gives force to
the advice they contain:

    The world is waiting for somebody,
      Waiting and watching to-day;
    Somebody to lift up and strengthen,
      Somebody to shield and stay.
    Do you thoughtlessly question, “Who?”
    ’Tis you, my friend, ’tis you!

    The world is waiting for somebody,
      Somebody brave and strong,
    With a helping hand, a generous heart,
      With a gift of deed or song.
    Do you doubtfully question, “Who?”
    ’Tis you, my friend, ’tis you!

    The world is waiting for somebody,
      The sad world bleak and cold,
    When wan-faced children are watching
      For hope in the eyes of the old.
    Do you wond’ringly question, “Who?”
    ’Tis you, my friend, ’tis you!

    The world is waiting for somebody,
      And has been for years on years;
    Somebody to soften its sorrows,
      Somebody to heed its tears.
    Then doubting question no longer, “Who?”
    For, oh, my friend, ’tis you!

    The world is waiting for somebody,
      A deed of love to do;
    Then up and hasten, everybody,
      For everybody is you!
    For everybody is you, my friend,
      For everybody is you!

    (3522)


                          YOUTH OF THE HEART

If we would keep our spirits young we should learn this lesson from the
trees, by Richard Kirk:

    Master, I learn this lesson from the trees:
    Not to grow old. The maple by my door
    Puts forth green leaves as cheerily as I,
    When I was taller than this selfsame tree,
    Put forth my youthful longings. I have erred,
    Standing a bleak and barren leafless thing
    Among my hopeful brothers. I am shamed.
    I will not be less hopeful than the trees;
    I will not cease to labor and aspire;
    I will not pause in patient high endeavor;
    I will be young in heart until I die.

    --_Lippincott’s Magazine._

    (3523)


                             YOUTH, USEFUL

   A newsboy of only fourteen lately did heroic rescue work in
   connection with the disaster at the Alexandra docks extension,
   in Newport, Monmouthshire, England, descending sixty feet under
   the fallen and broken timbers to clear the way to where the
   bleeding and crippled laborers were lying. The lad with two
   hands to help, and with a clear brain and a loving heart, is a
   very important factor in this busy and often troubled world.
   (Text.)

    (3524)


                          YOUTHFUL TENDENCIES

   One of our illustrated papers presented a picture in a late
   issue that painted a very definite moral. It was labeled “Man in
   the Making,” and showed two well-grown boys in a trolley car,
   one crowded in a corner and reading “Dead-Eye Dick,” and the
   other sitting up thoughtfully and studying his geometry.

    (3525)




                                   Z


                                 ZEAL

   Dr. Bonar tells of a dream he once had. In his dream the angels
   weighed his zeal, and he was delighted with the result. It
   reached the maximum and turned the scale at a hundred. Then
   they analyzed it, and his delight vanished. For (out of the
   hundred) fourteen parts were pure selfishness, fifteen parts
   sectarianism, twenty-two parts ambition, twenty-three parts love
   for man, and twenty-six parts love to God. He awoke from his
   dream sobered and saddened, but resolved on a new consecration.

How much religious zeal (if analyzed) would prove even more corrupt!

    (3526)


   =Zeal in Teachers=--See TEACHERS, ALERTNESS OF.


   =Zeal Overdone=--See HUMAN PASSION.


   =Zeal, Unwise=--See UNNATURAL EDUCATION.


   =Zones=--See PATHS, KEEPING ONE’S OWN.




                           INDEXES OF TEXTS




                    INDEX OF TEXTS IN TOPICAL ORDER

[In this index the text cited is judged to be appropriate to the
illustration found under the topical head. The illustration itself will
be found in its alphabetical place in the body of the book.]


                                   A

    =Ability, Gage of.= Phil. 4:13--I can do all things through
       Christ, &c.

    =Accidents.= Psalm 91:16--With long life will I satisfy him, &c.

    =Accusation Insufficient.= Josh. 7:23--And they took them out of
       the midst of the tent and brought them unto Joshua, &c.

    =Acquiescence to Providence.= Heb. 12:13--Be content, &c.;
      Phil. 4:11--In every state be content.

    =Advancement Rapid.= Eccl. 7:10--Say not thou, what is the cause
       that the former days were better than these, &c.

    =Advantage, Working to the Best.= 2 Chron. 2:14--Find out every
       device which shall be put to him, with thy cunning men, &c.

    =Adversity.= 1 Tim. 6:12--Fight the good fight, &c.

    =Affliction.= Lam. 3:31–33--For the Lord will not cast off forever,
       &c.

    =Affliction, Uses of.= Heb. 12:11--Now no chastening for the
       present, &c.

    =Age and Oratory.= Job 11:17--Then age shall be clearer than
       noonday.

    =Age, the New.= Isa. 2:4--Neither shall they learn war any more.

    =Agents, Insignificant.= 1 Cor. 1:25--The weakness of God is
       stronger than men.

    =Agriculture.= Gen. 1:28--Replenish the earth and subdue it.

    =Allurement, Fatal.= Prov. 1:10--If sinners entice thee, &c.

    =Almsgiving.= Matt. 6:1-4--Take heed that ye do not your alms
       before men, &c.

    =Altruism.= Isa. 61:3--Trees of righteousness, &c.

    =Amity after War.= 2 Sam: 9:1--Is there any left of the house of
       Saul that I may show him kindness, &c.

    =Ancient Art.= Eccl. 1:10--Is there anything whereof it may be
       said, See this is new? it hath been already of old time, which
       was before us?

    =Anger.= Psalm 106:33--Provoked his spirit ... spake unadvisedly
       with his lips.

    =Animal Dominion.= Rom. 1:23--And changed the glory of the
       uncorruptible God into ... four-footed beasts, &c.

    =Answer, A Soft.= Prov. 15:1--A soft answer turneth away wrath,
       etc.

    =Anticipating Success.= Mark 11:24--Faith is the Victory, &c.

    =Anticipation.= 2 Peter 3:13, 14--Nevertheless we, according to his
       promise, look for new heavens, &c.

    =Antipathies, Instinctive.= Rom. 12:9--Abhor that which is evil.

    =Apparel.= 1 Peter 3:4--Whose adorning let it not be ... the
       putting on of apparel, but ... the hidden man of the heart.

    =Appeal, A Living.= Luke 18:13--God be merciful to me a sinner.

    =Appearance.= John 7:24--Judge not according to the appearance, but
       judge righteous judgment.

    =Appearances Misleading.= 1 Sam. 16:7--Man looketh on the outward
       appearances but, &c.

    =Apprehension, Lincoln’s.= Lev. 26:36--And upon them that are left,
       &c.

    =Arguing for Truth.= Jude 3--Earnestly contend for the faith once
       delivered, &c.

    =Armor.= Eph. 6:10-17--Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord,
       etc.

    =Art, Devotion to.= 1 Tim. 4:15--Give thyself wholly to them, &c.

    =Artifice.= Luke 16:9--Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of
       unrighteousness; that when ye fail they may receive you into
       everlasting habitations.

    =Asking Amiss.= Jas. 4:3--Ye receive not because ye ask amiss.

    =Asking, Boldness in.= Eph. 3:12--In whom we have boldness and
       access with confidence by the faith of him.

    =Aspiration.= Phil. 3:14--I press toward the mark for the prize,
       &c.;
      Psalm 41:2--Lead me to the rock, &c.

    =Assimilation.= John 7:37, 38--If any man thirst, &c.

    =Association.= Rom. 12:2--Be ye transformed, &c.

    =Associations Mold Men.= Matt. 5:8--Blessed are the pure in heart.

    =Atonement.= Psalm 32:1--Blessed is he whose ... sin is covered.

    =Atonement Compelled.= Psalm 76:10--Surely the wrath of man shall
       praise thee, &c.

    =Atrophy.= Prov. 22:6--Train up a child in the way he should go,
       &c.


                                   B

    =Badges.= Matt. 10:32--Whosoever therefore shall confess me before
       men, &c.

    =Balance, a Loose.= Eccl. 12:14--For God shall bring every work
       into judgment, &c.

    =Ballot, a Duty.= Luke 16:8--Children of this world ... wiser than
       children of light, &c.

    =Baptism Interpreted.= Matt. 28:19--Baptizing them in the name, &c.

    =Beauty, Deceived by.= 2 Cor. 11:14--For Satan himself is
       transformed into an angel of light.

    =Beauty Perverted.= Rom. 7:13--Was, then, that which is good made
       death, &c.

    =Bible a Handbook.= Psalm 119:105--Thy word is a lamp unto my feet,
       &c.

    =Bible a Lamp.= Psalm 119:105--Thy word is a lamp, &c.

    =Bible, as Bread.= Psalm 119:11--Thy word have I hid in my heart,
       &c.

    =Bible, Regard for.= Psalm 119:97–102--How I love thy law, &c.

    =Bible, Re-enforced.= 1 Peter 1:25--The word of the Lord endureth
       forever.

    =Bird Notes.= Rom. 8:22--The whole creation groaneth, &c.

    =Blessing the Ropes.= Psalm 127:1--Except the Lord build the house,
       &c.

    =Blessings, Conquering.= Gal. 15:1--Stand fast therefore in the
       liberty, &c.

    =Blessings Counted.= Psalm 139:18--If I should count them they are
       more in number than the sand.

    =Blindness a Blessing.= Rom. 1:20--The invisible things ... are
       clearly seen.

    =Blood, Cry for.= Gen. 4:10--The voice of thy brother’s blood
       crieth unto me from the ground.

    =Bondage to Sin.= Psalm 59:3--Lie in wait for my soul, &c.

    =Books, Poison in.= Eccl. 10:11--The serpent will bite, &c.

    =Brevity of Life.= James 4:13--Go to now, ye that say, &c.;
      Psalm 90:9, 10--For all our days are passed away, &c.

    =Building the Soul’s City.= Rev. 21:10--That great city, the holy
       Jerusalem, &c.

    =Burdens, Bearing One Another’s.= Gal. 6:2--Bear ye one another’s
       burdens.

    =Business, Religion in.= Rom. 12:11--Not slothful in business ...
       Serving the Lord.


                                   C

    =Care-free.= Phil. 4:6--Be careful for nothing, &c.

    =Ceremony, Uselessness of.= Matt. 23:23--For ye pay title of mint
       and anise and cumin, and have omitted the weightier matters of
       the law, &c.

    =Chains.= Psalm 23:5--Thou preparest a table before us, &c.

    =Character Conditioned by the Physical.= Mark 2:5–9--When Jesus saw
       their faith, &c.

    =Character More Than Clothing.= Matt. 6:25--Is not the life more
       than meat, &c.

    =Character Not Purchasable.= Prov. 8:11--For wisdom is better than
       rubies, &c.

    =Character, Support of.= Gal. 2:20--Christ liveth in me, &c.

    =Cheer, Signals of.= Psalm 43:3--Send out thy light, &c.

    =Child, Faith of a.= Isa. 11:16--A little child shall lead them.

    =Child, Leading of a.= 2 Sam. 12:23--I shall go to him, but he
       shall not return to me.

    =Child, The.= Matt. 18:2–4--Jesus called a little child ... and
       set him in the midst of them, &c.

    =Children Safe.= Matt. 18:10--Their angels do always behold the
       face, &c.

    =Chivalry.= Acts 10:34, 35--Then Peter opened his mouth, &c.

    =Choked.= Matt. 13:7--And the thorns grew up and choked them.

    =Christ, a Therapeutic.= 1 Cor. 3:18--Changed into the same image.

    =Christ Approved.= James 2:2–4--If there come into your assembly a
       man with a gold ring, &c.

    =Christ, Destroyer of Sin.= Rom. 7:13--The sin ... might become
       exceeding sinful, &c.

    =Christ, Faith in.= Gal. 2:20--The life which I now live, &c.

    =Christ, Goodness of.= John 8:16--Which did you convinceth me of
       sin?

    =Christ in the Congregation.= Matt. 28:20--Lo, I am with you
       always.

    =Christ, Intimacy with.= 2 Tim 1:12--For I know whom I have
       believed, &c.

    =Christ Our Pilot.= Psalm 32:8--I will guide thee with mine eye.

    =Christ Still Present.= Heb. 13:8--Jesus Christ, the same
       yesterday, to-day and forever.

    =Christ the Conqueror.= Rev. 19:16--And he hath on his vesture and
       on his thigh a name written, King of Kings and Lord of Lords.

    =Christ the Door.= John 10:7--I am the door of the sheep.

    =Christ the Lamb.= Rev. 5:12--Worthy is the lamb, &c.

    =Christ the Light.= John 8:12. I am the light, &c.

    =Christ the Rejected.= Isa. 53:3--He is despised and rejected of
       men, &c.

    =Christ Unavoidable.= Matt. 27:22--What shall I do then with Jesus,
       &c.

    =Christ, Union with.= John 15:1-5--I am the true vine, &c.

    =Christ’s Face.= Phil. 1:21--For to me to live is Christ, &c.

    =Christ’s Love.= Phil. 2:6–8--Because obedient unto death, &c.

    =Christian Spirit, The.= Neh. 2:11--So I came to Jerusalem and was
       there three days, &c.

    =Christian Unity.= 1 John 4:7--Beloved, let us love one another.

    =Christianity and Civilization.= Luke 2:30–32--For mine eyes have
       seen thy salvation, &c.

    =Christianity as a Civilizer.= John 5:36--The very works that I do
       bear witness of me.

    =Christianity Invincible.= Psalm 7:16--His mischief shall return
       upon his own head.

    =Christianity, Social.= 1 Cor. 12:12–27--Many members ... one body.

    =Christianity Succeeding Barbarism.= Isa. 55:13--Instead of the
       thorn, &c.

    =Church, Deadness of the.= Rev. 3:1--Thou hast a name that thou
       livest, &c.

    =Church, Guidance for the.= Psalm 32:8--I will guide thee, &c.;
      Psalm 78:52--Guided them ... like a flock, &c.;
      Isa. 58:11--The Lord shall guide thee, &c.

    =Church, Joining the.= Num. 10:29--Come thou with us and we will do
       thee good, &c.

    =Church-members, Working.= Rom. 16:9--Salute Urbane, our helper in
       Christ, and Stachys my beloved.

    =Church, Mission of.= Matt. 5:14--Ye are the light of the world.

    =Church, The.= Eph. 5:27--A glorious church, not having spot or
       wrinkle.

    =Church Union.= John 17:21--That they all may be one.

    =Churches, Dead.= Rev. 3:1--Thou hast a name that thou livest, and
       art dead.

    =Circumstances, Taking Advantage of.= Matt. 7:12--Therefore all
       things whatsoever ye would, &c.

    =Citizenship in the Kingdom.= Phil. 3:20--Our citizenship
       (conversation) is in heaven.

    =Civics.= Acts 17:26--And hath made of one blood all nations of
       men, &c.

    =Claim, God’s.= Prov. 23:33--My son, give me thine heart.

    =Cleanliness.= Psalm 24:4--Clean hands and a pure heart.

    =Cleansing, Difficulty of.= Psalm 51:7--Purge me with hyssop, &c.

    =Clues.= Psalm 37:5--Commit thy way unto the Lord.

    =Coincidence and Superstition.= Acts 1:26--And they gave forth
       their lots, &c.

    =Common Sense.= Prov. 24:26--Every man shall kiss his lips that
       giveth a right answer (that answereth right words).

    =Compensation.= 2 Cor. 4:18--While we look not at the things that
       are seen, &c.;
      Isa. 32:2--And a man shall be as a hiding-place, &c.

    =Competition.= Phil. 1:27--Striving together for the faith of the
       gospel, &c.

    =Conceit of Opinion.= Prov. 26:12--Seest thou a man wise in his own
       conceit? there is more hope of a fool than of him.

    =Condemned, the.= John 15:2--Every branch in me that beareth fruit,
       &c.

    =Condescension.= Prov. 26:4--Answer not a fool according to his
       folly, lest thou also be like unto him.

    =Conduct, Past, Unconsidered.= Gal. 3:10--Cursed is every one that
       continueth not in all things, &c.

    =Confession, Unrepentant.= Matt. 3:8--Bring forth fruit meet for
       repentance.

    =Confidence.= Isa. 30:15.--In quiet and confidence shall be, &c.;
      Luke 12:32--Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father’s good
       pleasure to give you the kingdom.

    =Confidence, Inspiring.= Matt. 5:42--Give to him that asketh thee,
       &c.

    =Conformity.= 1 Cor. 9:20--Unto the Jews I became as a Jew, &c.

    =Conscience.= Prov. 28:1--The wicked flee, &c.

    =Conscience Benumbed.= Rom. 1:26--For which cause God gave them up
       unto vile affections, &c.

    =Consecration.= 1 Cor. 9:16--Wo is unto me if I preach not, &c.

    =Consequences.= Eccl. 10:8--Whoso breaketh an hedge a serpent shall
       bite him.

    =Consequences, Irreparable.= Isa. 1:18--Tho your sins be as
       scarlet, they shall be as white as snow, &c.

    =Consequences, Unnoticed.= Eph. 4:30--Grieve not the Holy Spirit
       whereby ye are sealed, &c.

    =Conversation.= Luke 19:10--Son of man is come to seek, &c.

    =Contact.= Matt. 9:21--If I may but touch the hem of his garment,
       I shall be whole.

    =Control, Divine.= Psalm 37:5--Commit thy way unto the Lord, &c.;
      Prov. 16:3--Commit thy works unto the Lord, &c.

    =Conversion.= John 3:4--How can a man be born when he is old, &c.;
      Isa. 40:31--They that wait upon the Lord, &c.;
      2 Cor. 5:17--If any man be in Christ he is a new creature, &c.

    =Conversion, Not Unnatural.= John 3:4--How can a man be born when
       he is old, &c.

    =Conviction, Unyielding.= Exodus 23:2--Thou shalt not follow a
       multitude to do evil.

    =Convictions, Strong.= Prov. 16:5--Tho hand join in hand, &c.

    =Cooperation, Lack of.= Heb. 1:14--Are they not all ministering
       spirits, &c.

    =Cooperation with God.= 1 Cor. 3:6--I have planted, Apollos
       watered; but God gave the increase.

    =Cost Reckoned.= John 6:12--Gather up the fragments, &c.

    =Countenance, Grace in the.= Eccl. 8:1--A man’s wisdom maketh his
       face to shine, &c.

    =Courage.= Isa. 50:7--Therefore have I set my face like a flint,
       &c.

    =Courage of Hope.= Joel 2:25, 26--And I will restore to you the
       years, &c.

    =Courage versus Etiquette.= John 5:8, 9--Jesus saith unto him,
       Rise, take up thy bed and walk.... And the same day was the
       Sabbath.

    =Cross, Charm of the.= Rom. 1:16--For I am not ashamed of the
       Gospel of Christ, &c.

    =Cross Imperishable.= Gal. 6:14. God forbid that I should glory,
       &c.

    =Cross, The.= Gal. 6:14--God forbid that I should glory, &c.

    =Crowd and the Exception.= 1 Sam. 9:2--From his shoulders upward
       he (Saul) was higher than any of his people.

    =Crown, The Christian’s.= 2 Tim. 4:8--Laid up for me a crown, &c.

    =Crying Beneficial.= Psalm 42:3--My tears have been my meat, &c.

    =Currents of Life.= Ezek. 47:9--Withersoever the rivers come, &c.;
      Psalm 46:4--There is a river, &c.

    =Cursing Forbidden.= Rom. 12:14--Bless and curse not.

    =Cynic Rebuked.= Matt. 7:1--Judge not, &c.


                                   D

    =Danger from Below.= Rom. 7:25--So then with the mind I myself
       serve the law of God; but with the flesh the law of sin.

    =Danger, Stimulating Exertion.= Matt. 7:13, 14--Enter ye in at the
       strait gate, &c.

    =Darkness.= Psalm 139:12--Darkness and light are both alike to
       thee;
      John 3:20--Every one that doeth evil hateth the light;
      Rom. 13:12--Let us cast off the works of darkness, &c.

    =Darkness Developing Character.= Job 29:3--By his light I walked
       through darkness.

    =Darkness, Growth in.= Isa. 45:3--Treasures of darkness.

    =Dawn of Christian Light.= Mal. 4:2--Arise with healing in his
       wings.

    =Daybreak.= Exod. 16:7--In the morning then shall ye see the glory
       of the Lord.

    =Dead tho Alive.= Eph. 2:1--And you hath he quickened, &c.;
      1 Tim. 5:6--But she that liveth in pleasure, &c.

    =Death as a Shadow.= Amos 5:8--Seek him ... that turned the shadow
       of death into the morning.

    =Death, Christian Attitude toward.= Rom. 5:12--Death passed upon
       all men, &c.

    =Death, Spiritual.= Eph. 2:1--And you hath he quickened, &c.

    =Death, The Ring of.= Rom. 6:23--The wages of sin is death;
      1 Cor. 15:26--The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death.

    =Death, Untimely.= Isa. 28:10--I said in the cutting off of my
       days, I shall go to the gates of the grave, &c.

    =Deception.= Deut. 25:13--Thou shalt not have in thy bag divers
       weights a great and a small.

    =Deception Exposed.= Num. 32:23--Be sure your sin will find you
       out.

    =Deeds, not Appearances.= Matt. 7:21--Not everyone that saith ...
       but he that doeth, &c.

    =Deeds That Talk.= Matt. 7:21--Not everyone that saith unto me
       Lord, Lord, &c.

    =Deep-down Things.= 1 Cor. 2:10--The deep things of God.

    =Deep Things.= 1 Cor. 2:10--Deep things of God.

    =Deformity.= 1 Cor. 14:20--Be not children in understanding;
       howbeit, in malice be ye children, &c.

    =Degradation.= 2 Tim. 3:13--Evil men ... shall wax worse and worse,
       &c.;
      Exod. 32:19--He saw the calf and the dancing, and Moses’ anger
        waxed hot, &c.

    =Delay.= Gen. 19:17--Look not behind thee, neither stay thou in all
       the plain; escape to the mountain, etc.

    =Delay, The Tragedy of.= Jer. 8:20--The harvest is past, &c.

    =Demonstration.= John 7:51--Doth our law judge any man before it
       hear him, and know what he doeth.

    =Depravity.= Isa. 1:18--Tho your sins be as scarlet, &c.

    =Deprivation.= Isa. 59:9--We wait for light, but behold obscurity,
       &c.

    =Depth of Resources.= Ezek. 34:18--To have drunk of the deep
       waters.

    =Design in Nature.= Psalm 94:9--He that planted the ear, &c.

    =Destiny.= Col. 3:1--Seek those things which are above, &c.

    =Devices, Fatal.= Josh. 23:13--They shall be snares and traps unto
       you.

    =Devil, The Chosen.= Judges 10:14--Go and cry unto the gods which
       ye have chosen; let them deliver you in the time of your
       tribulation.

    =Direction.= Luke 9:51--He stedfastly set his face to go to
       Jerusalem.

    =Directions.= Psalm 119:105--Thy word is a lamp, &c.

    =Directions Contrasted.= Isa. 53:9--He made his grave with the
       wicked, &c.

    =Disappointment.= Isa. 49:4--I have labored in vain, I have spent
       my strength for nought.

    =Discipline.= Rev. 3:19--As many as I love ... I chasten.

    =Discipline from Change.= Psalm 55:19--Because they have no
       changes, &c.

    =Discontent, Divine.= Phil. 3:13, 14--Brethren, I count not myself,
       &c.

    =Disease, Beneficial.= Psalm 119:67--Before I was afflicted I went
       astray; but now have I kept thy word.

    =Disguised Danger.= Matt. 7:15--False prophets ... in sheep’s
       clothing ... inwardly ravening wolves.

    =Dishonesty.= Matt. 16:24, 25--Then said Jesus unto his disciples,
       &c.

    =Divinity.= Acts 17:28--For in him we live and move and have our
       being, &c.

    =Dominant Elements.= 1 Cor. 12:6--There are diversities of gifts.

    =Doubt, Issuing in Peace.= Gen. 45:27--And when he saw the wagons
       which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob their
       father revived.

    =Dreams.= Eccl. 3:11--He hath set the world (eternity) in their
       hearts, &c.

    =Drink, Heritage of.= Exod. 20:5--Visiting the iniquity of the
       fathers upon the children, &c.

    =Drink, Peril of.= Prov. 20:1--Wine is a mocker, strong drink, &c.

    =Duality.= Rom. 7:23--But I see another law in my members, warring
       against the law of my mind.

    =Duty in Death.= Rev. 2:10--Be thou faithful unto death, &c.


                                   E

    =Early Promise.= Gal. 5:7--Ye did run well, &c.

    =Early Religion.= Eccl. 12:1--Remember now thy Creator, &c.

    =Earnestness.= Rev. 3:16--Neither cold nor hot;
      1 Cor. 9:25--They ... for a corruptible crown ... we for an
        incorruptible.

    =Eating and Character.= Phil. 3:19--Whose god is their belly.

    =Economic Motives.= 1 Chron. 22:15--Moreover there were workmen
       with thee in abundance, hewers and workers in stone, &c.

    =Economy.= Heb. 13:5--Be content with such things as ye have.

    =Economy in Work.= Eccl. 12:11--As nails fastened by the master,
       &c.

    =Economy of Energy.= Hosea 7:9--Strangers have devoured his
       strength and he knoweth it not.

    =Economy of Natural Resources.= Gen. 8:22--While the earth
       remaineth, seed time, and harvest, &c.

    =Effacement of Sins.= Ps. 51:1--Blot out my transgressions;
      Ps. 51:9--Blot out all my iniquities.

    =Egoism.= Gen. 4:9--Am I my brother’s keeper?

    =Elect, The.= Rom. 8:29--For whom he did foreknow, he also did
       predestinate, &c.

    =Elevation.= Deut. 34:1--And Moses went up from the plains of Noah
       unto the mountain of Nebo to the top of Pisgah;
      Isa. 40:9--Get thee up into the high mountain, Jerusalem that
        bringest good tidings, &c.

    =Elevation and Vision.= Psalm 121:1--I will lift up mine eyes, &c.

    =Emergency.= 1 Sam. 21:8--The king’s business requireth haste.

    =Encouragement.= Eccl. 9:10--Whatsoever thy hand findeth, &c.;
      2 Tim. 2:1--Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that
        is in Christ Jesus.

    =Endeavor.= 1 Pet. 3:13--Who is he that will harm you, if ye be
       followers of that which is good.

    =Endeavor, Constant.= 1 Cor. 9:25--And every man that striveth for
       the mastery, &c.

    =Endurance.= Matt. 10:22--He that endureth to the end, &c.

    =Endurance of Pain.= Heb. 13:6--I will not fear what man shall do
       unto me.

    =Enemies Converted.= Rom. 12:20--In so doing thou shalt heap coals
       of fire on his head.

    =Enticement.= Prov. 1:10--If sinners entice thee consent thou not.

    =Environment, Destructive.= 1 Cor. 5:6--Your glorying is not good,
       &c.

    =Environment that Transforms.= Rom. 12:2--And be not conformed to
       this world, &c.

    =Envy.= 1 Cor. 13:4--Charity envieth not.

    =Equalization.= Lev. 27:8--According to his ability shall the
       priest value him.

    =Ethical Principle.= John 7:17--If any man will do his will, he
       shall know of the doctrine, &c.

    =Evangelization.= Mark 16:15--And he said unto them, Go ye, &c.

    =Evaporation.= Psalm 63:1--O God ... early will I seek thee, &c.

    =Evidence, Christian.= Matt. 7:21--Not every one that saith, Lord,
       Lord, shall enter, &c.

    =Evil Beginnings.= Prov. 16:25--There is a way that seemeth good,
       &c.

    =Evil Deflected.= 1 Peter 3:13--Who is he that will harm you, &c.

    =Evil Disguised.= Matt. 23:27--Ye are like unto whited sepulchers,
       &c.

    =Evil Self-Destructive.= Psalm 7:16--His mischief shall return upon
       his own head.

    =Evil, Virulency of.= Rom. 5:12--Wherefore as by one man, &c.

    =Example.= Gal. 6:2--Bear ye one another’s burdens, &c.;
      Heb. 6:12--Followers of them who through faith, &c.

    =Example, Attention to.= Psalm 123:2--Behold, as the eyes of
       servants, &c.

    =Exclusion from Heaven.= Matt. 25:10--And the door was shut.

    =Excuses.= Luke 14:15–24--Began to make excuse, &c.

    =Experience.= Matt. 7:35--Cast out the beam in thine own eyes, &c.

    =Experience a Hard Teacher.= Matt. 23:3--Whatsoever they bid you
       observe, &c.

    =Experience the Best Argument.= 2 Tim. 1:12--I know whom I have
       believed, &c.

    =Experience, Value of.= Matt. 15:14--If the blind lead the blind,
       &c.

    =Experiment.= Psalm 64:6--They accomplish a diligent search ... and
       the heart is deep;
      1 Cor. 3:10--I have laid the foundation, another buildeth
        thereon;
      John 4:37--One soweth, another reapeth.

    =Exposure.= Prov. 28:13--He that covereth his sins, &c.

    =Extravagance, Censurable.= Job 27:19--The rich man shall lie down,
       &c.;
      Prov. 22:27--The rich ruleth over the poor, &c.

    =Eye, The Searching.= Gen. 16:13--Thou God seest me.


                                   F

    =Face, The, Revealing the Gospel.= Eccl. 8:1--A man’s wisdom maketh
       his face to shine, &c.

    =Facts, Religious.= 2 Tim. 4:3--For the time will come, &c.

    =Failure Transformed to Success.= Isa. 45:2--I will go before thee,
       &c.

    =Faith.= Psalm 30:5--Weeping may endurefor a night, &c.;
      Heb. 11:1--Faith ... substance of things hoped for, &c.;
      Luke 12:24--Consider the ravens.... God feedeth them, &c.;
      Micah, 7:8--When I fall, I shall arise, &c.

    =Faith, A Child’s.= Luke 18:17--Whosoever shall not receive the
       kingdom as a little child, &c.

    =Faith and Power.= Acts 6:8--Full of faith and power, &c.

    =Faith and Prayer.= Matt. 7:11--If ye then, being evil, &c.

    =Faith and Support.= Matt. 10:9, 10--Provide neither gold nor
       silver, &c.

    =Faith Better Than Sight.= 1 Cor. 5:7--We walk by faith not by
       sight.

    =Faith Taught by Nature.= Psalm 147:9--He giveth ... food to the
       ravens, &c.;
      Matt. 6:30--If God so clothe the grass of the field, &c.

    =Faith without Works.= James 2:17--Faith if it have not work, &c.

    =Faithfulness.= 1 Cor. 4:2--Moreover it is required in stewards,
       that a man be found faithful.

    =Faithfulness unto Death.= 2 Tim 4:7--I have kept the faith.

    =Falsehood.= Gal. 2:13--Other Jews dissembled likewise with him.

    =Falsity, Inner.= Matt. 15:18--Those things ... come forth from
       the heart, &c.

    =Family Religion.= Prov. 22:6--Train up a child in the way he
       should go, &c.

    =Fasting.= Matt. 6:16--When ye fast be not as the hypocrites, &c.

    =Father Animals, Unparental.= Psalm 27:10--When my father and
       mother forsake me, &c.

    =Fatherhood.= Luke 15:20--When he was yet a great way off, his
       father saw him, &c.

    =Father’s Voice.= Luke 15:18--I will arise and go to my father.

    =Fear as a Motive.= Eccl. 12:13--Fear God.

    =Fear of God.= Eccl. 12:14--Fear God, &c.

    =Fear of Man.= Jude 16--Having men’s persons in admiration because
       of advantage.

    =Fertility.= John 12:24--Except a corn of wheat, &c.

    =Fire, Cost of.= 1 Cor. 3:13--The fire shall try every man’s work.

    =Fire, Heavenly.= Jer. 23:29--Is not my word like as a fire, &c.

    =Fishers of Men.= Matt. 4:19--Follow me ... fishers of men;
      Luke 5:10--From henceforth thou shalt catch men.

    =Flowers, Meanings of.= Matt. 6:28--Consider the lilies of the
       field, &c.

    =Focusing the Eye.= Matt. 6:21--For where your treasure is, &c.

    =Following Christ.= John 2:5--Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it;
      John 15:14--Ye are my friends if ye do whatsoever I command you.

    =Following, Inexact.= Matt. 7:14--Strait is the gate, &c.;
      James 2:10--Keep the whole law ... offend in one point, &c.

    =Forbearance.= John 8:10, 11--When Jesus had lifted up himself,
       &c.;
      Rom. 12:17--Recompense to no man evil for evil.

    =Forgiveness.= Matt. 6:14, 15--If ye forgive not, &c.

    =Forgiveness, Conditions of.= Matt. 3:8--Fruits meet for
       repentance.

    =Form versus Reality.= 2 Tim. 3:5--Having a form of godliness, but
       denying the power thereof.

    =Foundations.= 1 Tim. 6:16--If the foundations be destroyed, &c.;
      1 Tim. 6:19--A good foundation;
      1 Cor. 3:11--Other foundations can no man lay.

    =Freedom Chosen.= Gal. 5:1--Stand fast therefore in the liberty
       wherewith Christ has made you free.

    =Freedom of Soul.= John 8:32--Truth shall make you free.

    =Friendliness.= John 15:15--I have called you friends.

    =Friends, Choice of.= Prov. 13:20--He that walketh with wise men
       shall be wise, &c.

    =Fruit and Soil.= Mark 4:5--Fell on stony ground, &c.

    =Fruit-bearing.= Luke 6:44--Every tree is known by his own fruit.

    =Fruitfulness.= Psalm 1:3--Like a tree planted by the river, &c.

    =Future Life.= 1 John 3:2--It doth not yet appear what we shall be;
      1 Cor. 13:12--For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then
        face to face, &c.

    =Future Welfare.= Jer. 31:34--And they shall teach no more, &c.


                                   G

    =Gain through Loss.= 2 Cor. 4:17--Our light affliction which is but
       for a moment, &c.

    =Generosity.= Prov. 11:24--There is that scattereth and yet
       increaseth, &c.;
      Acts 20:35--It is more blessed to give than to receive;
      Heb. 13:16--But to do good and to communicate, forget not, &c.

    =Generosity, Christian.= Matt. 25:40--Inasmuch as ye have done it,
       &c.

    =Genius Can Not Be Hidden.= Isa. 58:10--Then shall thy light rise
       in obscurity, &c.

    =Genius, Discovering.= John 1:41, 42--He first findeth his own
       brother, &c.

    =Genius versus Tools.= Mark 9:28--Why could not we cast him out,
       &c.

    =Getting and Giving.= Matt. 10:8--Freely ye have received, freely
       give.

    =Giants.= 2 Sam. 22:36--Thy gentleness hath made me great.

    =Giving Faithful.= Mal. 3:10--Bring tithes into the storehouse, &c.

    =Giving through Love.= Luke 7:37, 38--Alabaster box of ointment,
       &c.

    =Glory of Christ.= 2 Peter 3:18--To him be glory, &c.

    =God, Greatness and Smallness.= Isa. 57:15--I dwell in the high and
       holy place.

    =God, Immanence of.= Psalm 19:1–3--The heavens declare the glory of
       God, &c.

    =God, Living for.= Rom. 11:36--Of him, through him, and to him all
       things.

    =God our Strength.= Psalm 50:15--Call upon me in the day of
       trouble, &c.;
      Job. 5:19--He shall deliver thee in six troubles, &c.

    =God Revealed in Nature.= Psalm 19--The heavens declare, &c.

    =God Sends Gifts.= James 1:17--Every good and every perfect gift is
       from, &c.

    =God, Sleepless Care of.= Psalm 4:8--In peace will I both lay me
       down and sleep.

    =God Surrounding the Soul.= Acts 17:28--In Him we live and move and
       have our being.

    =God, the Unsleeping.= Psalm 121:4--He that keepeth Israel shall
       neither slumber, &c.

    =Godlikeness of Man.= Psalm 139:17--How precious also are thy
       thoughts unto me, O God.

    =God’s Care.= Deut. 33:27--Underneath are the everlasting arms.

    =God’s Inscrutability.= Rom. 11:33--O, the depth of the riches, &c.

    =Golden Age, the.= 2 Cor. 6:2--Now is the accepted time.

    =Good for Evil.= 1 Peter 3:9--Not rendering evil for evil.

    =Good in all Men.= Luke 19:10--For the son of man is come, &c.

    =Good, Nourishing the.= Psalm 55:13--Instead of briar shall come
       up, &c.

    =Good Out of Evil.= Gen. 50:20--Ye thought evil ... God meant it
       unto good, &c.

    =Good Shall Prevail.= 1 Cor. 15:25--He must reign until, &c.

    =Good Will.= Isa. 11:6. The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb,
       &c.

    =Goodness from God.= James 1:17--Every good and every perfect gift
       is from above, &c.

    =Gospel, a Medicated.= Jer. 8:22--Is there no balm in Gilead?

    =Grace, not Growth.= Eph. 2:8--By grace ye are saved, &c.

    =Gravity.= Eccl. 7:4--The heart of the wise is in the house of
       mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.

    =Greatness Called Forth.= Isa. 43:10--My servant whom I have
       chosen.

    =Greatness in Men.= Gen. 6:4--The same became mighty men which were
       of old men of renown.

    =Greatness Serving.= John 13:4, 5--Took a towel and girded himself,
       &c.

    =Greed.= Matt. 25:40--Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the
       least of these, my brethren, ye have done it unto me.

    =Grief, Revealed.= Gen. 43:31--And he washed his face, and went out
       and refrained himself.

    =Growing too Fast.= Isa. 3:4--I will give children to be their
       princes, and babes shall rule over them.

    =Growth, Cause of.= John 3:5--Jesus answered, Verily, verily, &c.

    =Growth, Evil.= 2 Tim. 3:13--Evil men and seducers shall wax worse
       and worse, &c.

    =Growth, Unconscious.= Matt. 13:31, 32--Another parable put he
       forth, &c.

    =Guidance, God’s.= Psalm 73:24--Thou shalt guide me, &c.

    =Guidance Evilward.= Eph. 6:11--The wiles of the devil.

    =Guilt.= Job. 20:27--The heaven shall reveal his iniquity, &c.


                                   H

    =Habit, the Power of.= Eccl. 2:20--Therefore I went about to cause
       my heart to despair of all the labor which I took under the sun.

    =Happiness, Dearth of.= Isa. 48:22. No peace ... to the wicked.

    =Happiness, Imparting.= Acts 20:35--More blessed to give than to
       receive.

    =Hardness of Heart.= Ezek. 11:19--I will take the stony heart out
       of their flesh.

    =Hardship, Missionary.= 2 Tim. 2:3--Endure hardness, &c.

    =Hardship Vicariously Borne.= Matt. 8:17--Himself took our
       infirmities and bare our sickness.

    =Harvest from Early Sowing.= Eccl. 11:1--Cast thy bread upon the
       waters, &c.

    =Havoc that Spreads.= 1 Cor. 12:26--Whether one member suffer all
       the members suffer with it.

    =Headwork.= Eccl. 9:10--Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, &c.

    =Health, Economics, of.= Isa. 55:2--Eat ye that which is good, &c.

    =Heart Interest.= Rom. 10:10--With the heart man believeth unto
       righteousness, &c.

    =Heart, The.= Rom. 10:10--With the heart man believeth, &c.

    =Healing Waters.= Psalm 46:4--A river, the streams whereof shall
       make glad, &c.

    =Heaven our Home.= Heb. 13:14--For here we have no continuing city.

    =Heights, Pressing toward.= Psalm 121:1--I will lift up mine eyes
       unto the hills, &c.

    =Help for the Helpless.= Matt. 11:28-30--Come unto me, &c.

    =Helpfulness.= Rom. 12:13--Distributing to the necessity of saints,
       &c.;
      Luke 21:1, 2--Casting in two mites.

    =Heredity.= Jer. 31:29, 30--The fathers have eaten sour grapes, &c.

    =Heroism.= Acts 17:26--And hath made of one blood, &c.

    =Higher, the.= Mark 10:29. There is no man that hath left house,
       &c.

    =Higher Law, the.= Esther 4:16--I will go in unto the king, &c.

    =Homage.= Phil. 2:9--That at the name of Jesus every knee should
       bow, &c.

    =Homage to Christ.= Rev. 4:10--Cast their crowns, &c.

    =Home.= Hab. 2:5--He is a proud man, neither keepeth at home, &c.

    =Home where the Heart is.= Eph. 1:14--Which is the earnest of our
       inheritance, &c.;
      Heb. 13:14--For here we have no continuing city, &c.

    =Homesickness.= 2 Cor. 5:4--For we that are in this tabernacle do
       groan, &c.

    =Hope.= Rom. 8:24, 25--We are saved by hope, &c.

    =Hope Deferred.= Prov. 13:12--Hope deferred maketh the heart sick.

    =Hospitality in Old Times.= Heb. 13:2--Be not forgetful to
       entertain strangers, &c.

    =House, the Mortal.= 2 Cor. 5:1--For ye know that if our earthly
       house of this tabernacle be dissolved, &c.

    =Human Nature, Insecurity of.= 2 Sam. 22:47--God the rock of my
       salvation.

    =Human Nature, Much Alike.= Acts 17:26--Hath made of one blood, &c.

    =Humble Work.= 1 Cor. 12:14-21--In the law it is written, &c.

    =Humility.= 1 Peter 5:6--Humble yourself therefore under, &c.;
      Luke 18:14--He that humbleth himself, &c.;
      Luke 23:42--Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom,
        &c.;
      John 13:–15--Began to wash the disciples’ feet.

    =Humor Overdone.= Prov. 17:22--A merry heart doeth good, &c.

    =Hymn, A Good.= Matt. 11:28--Come unto me, all ye that labor, &c.

    =Hypocrisy.= Numbers 32:23--Your sin will find you out.


                                   I

    =Ideal, the, Attempted.= Isa. 11:9--Nor hurt nor destroy in all my
       holy mountain, &c.

    =Identification.= John 10:3--He calleth his own sheep by name, &c.

    =Idleness.= Eph. 5:16--Redeeming the time, &c.

    =Ignorance.= Hosea 4:6--My people are destroyed, &c.;
      Psalm 55:22--Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and he shall sustain
        thee.

    =Ill-fortune Becoming Good Fortune.= Deut. 28:13--And the Lord
       shall make thee the head and not the tail, &c.

    =Image of God Reproduced.= 2 Cor. 3:10--Changed into the same
       image, &c.

    =Imagery of the Mind.= Ezek. 8:12--Every man in the chambers of
       his imagery, &c.

    =Imagination, Lure of.= James 1:14--Every man is tempted when he is
       drawn away of his own lusts, &c.

    =Imitation.= 2 Cor. 3:18--Changed into the same image, &c.

    =Imitation of God.= Matt. 5:45--That ye may be the children, &c.

    =Immigration.= Matt. 25:35–38, 43--For I was an hungered, &c.

    =Immortality.= Isa. 26:19--Thy dead men shall live, together with
       my dead body shall they arise;
      Prov. 16:31--The hoary head is a crown of glory if it be found in
        the way of righteousness.

    =Immortality, Intimations of.= John 14:3--And if I go and prepare a
       place for you, &c.

    =Immortality of Influence.= Heb. 11:4--He being dead yet speaketh.

    =Immortality, Proof of.= Rom. 2:7--To them who ... seek for ...
       immortality, eternal life.

    =Imperfections Corrected.= Eph. 2:21--In whom the whole building
       fitly framed together, &c.

    =Impress.= Prov. 22:6--Train up a child in the way he should go,
       &c.

    =Improvement.= Psalm 112:2--His seed shall be mighty upon earth;
       the generation of the righteous shall be blessed.

    =Improving Time.= Eph. 5:16--Redeeming the time.

    =Incentives.= Matt. 7:14--Strait is the gate, &c.

    =Incitement.= 2 Kings 19:14--And Hezekiah received the letter ...
       and spread it before the Lord.

    =Inconsistency.= Matt. 23:3--They say, and do not.

    =Indecision.= Luke 18:8--When the son of man cometh shall he find
       faith, &c.

    =Individual, Value of the.= Eccl. 9:10--Whatsoever thy hand findeth
       to do, &c.

    =Individuality.= John 2:24, 25--Jesus ... knew all men, and needed
       not that any should testify of man, for he knew what was in man.

    =Individuality in Interpretation.= 2 Pet. 1:20--No prophecy of the
       Scripture is of any private interpretation, &c.

    =Individuals, God’s Care over.= Matt. 18:12--If a man have a
       hundred sheep, &c.

    =Industry of Bees.= Prov. 6:6--Go to the ant, thou sluggard, &c.

    =Infidelity Repulsive.= Psalm 14:1--The fool hath said in his
       heart, &c.

    =Influence, Corrupt.= 1 Sam. 8:3--And his sons ... turned aside
       after lucre, and took bribes, and perverted judgment.

    =Influence, Posthumous.= Heb. 11:4--He, being dead, yet speaketh.

    =Injury to Self.= 1 Pet. 3:13--Who is he that will harm you, &c.

    =Inoculation.= Heb. 10:16--I will put my laws into their hearts,
       and in their minds will I write them, &c.

    =Insensitiveness to Beauty.= Matt. 13:14, 15--And in them is
       fulfilled the prophecy, &c.

    =Instinct.= Prov. 30:18–19--Three things too wonderful for me, &c.

    =Instinct, The Homing.= Isa. 35:10--The ransomed of the Lord shall
       return, &c.

    =Intelligence, Animal.= Jer. 8:7--Yea, the stork in the heaven
       knoweth her appointed times and the turtle and the crane and
       the swallow, &c.

    =Intelligence Outdoing Ignorance.= 1 Kings 18:21--If the Lord be
       God follow him, but if Baal, then follow him.

    =Intemperance.= Prov. 23:31--Wine ... when it giveth its color in
       the cup, &c.;
      Prov. 23:21--For the drunkard and the glutton shall come to
        poverty.

    =Intimacy with Christ.= John 15:4--Abide in me, &c.

    =Investment, Safe.= Matt. 6:19--Lay not up for yourselves treasures
       upon earth, &c.

    =Invisible, Potency of the.= Rom. 1:20--The invisible things of him
       from the creation, &c.

    =Invisible, The, Made Visible.= Rom. 1:20--The invisible things of
       him from the creation, &c.

    =Irrational Laws.= Prov. 22:22--Neither oppress the afflicted in
       the gate.

    =Irrigation.= Isa. 32:2--As rivers of water in a dry place.


                                   J

    =Jesus, Second Coming of.= Matt. 24:42--Watch therefore for ye know
       not, &c.

    =Journey to Heaven.= Heb. 11:16--But now they desire a better
       country, that is, a heavenly.

    =Joy.= Phil. 4:4--Again I say, rejoice.

    =Joy and Sorrow.= 2 Cor. 6:10--As sorrowful, yet always rejoicing.

    =Judging, Care in.= John 7:24--Judge not according to appearances,
       &c.


                                   K

    =Knowledge through Experience.= 2 Cor. 4:13--We having the same
       spirit of faith, &c.;
      Luke 5:30--But their scribes and Pharisees murmured, &c.

    =Knowledge, Unity of.= Colos. 1:17--By him all things consist
       (stand together).


                                   L

    =Labor, Opportunity for.= John 4:35--Fields ... White already to
       harvest.

    =Laughter.= Eccl. 3:4--A time to weep and a time to laugh.

    =Laughter, Value of.= Prov. 17:22--A merry heart doeth good like a
       medicine;
      Gen. 21:6--God hath made me to laugh.

    =Law and Grace.= Rom. 8:3--For what the law could not do, &c.

    =Lawlessness.= Matt. 26:52--All they that take the sword shall
       perish with the sword.

    =Leadership, Faithful.= Phil. 3:17--Walk so as ye have us for an
       ensample.

    =Lethargy.= 2 Pet. 1:5--Giving all diligence, add to faith virtue,
       &c.

    =Leveling.= Luke 1:52--He hath put down the mighty from their
       seats, and exalted them of low degree.

    =Liberty, Spiritual.= Rom. 8:21--Because the creature itself, &c.

    =Life, a Voyage.= Psalm 107:30--So he bringeth them unto their
       desired haven.

    =Life, Feeding the.= 1 Cor. 3:21--All things are yours.

    =Life from Death.= Job 38:22--Treasures of the snow, &c.

    =Life Learned from Death.= 1 John 3:14--We know that we have passed
       from death unto life, because, &c.

    =Life, Origin of.= Gen. 1:2--And the spirit of God moved upon the
       face of the waters.

    =Life Purpose.= Matt. 5:48--Be ye therefore perfect, &c.;
      Rev. 13:10--The patience and faith of the saints.

    =Life, Self-propagating.= Matt. 13:33--Another parable spake he
       unto them, &c.

    =Life, Spending.= Matt. 6:20--Lay up for yourselves treasures in
       heaven.

    =Life, Value of.= Eccl. 12:8--Vanity of Vanities, &c.

    =Life What We make It.= Prov. 23:7--For as he thinketh in his
       heart, &c.

    =Light.= John 3:20--For every one that doeth evil hateth the light,
       neither cometh to the light lest his deeds should be reproved;
      Matt. 5:16--Let your light so shine before men, &c.;
      Matt. 5:6--Let your light so shine, &c.

    =Light after Night.= Psalm 30:5--Weeping may endure for a night,
       but joy cometh in the morning.

    =Light and activity.= Dan. 12:3--They that be wise shall shine, &c.

    =Light as a Cure.= 1 John 1:7--If we walk in the light, &c.

    =Light, Christian.= Matt. 5:14--Ye are the light, &c.

    =Light Developing Beauty.= Psalm 36:9--In thy light shall we see
       light.

    =Light of the World.= John 8:12--I am the light of the world.

    =Light Preventing Crime.= John 3:20--Neither cometh to the light
       lest, &c.

    =Light, Source of.= 1 John 1:5--God is light, and in him is no
       darkness at all.

    =Light that Cheers.= Matt. 5:16--Let your light so shine, &c.

    =Limitation of the Senses.= 1 Cor. 2:9--Eye hath not seen, nor ear
       heard ... the things which God hath prepared for them that love
       him.

    =Little Things.= Song of Sol. 2:15--Little foxes, &c.;
      Luke 19:10--Faithful in that which is least, &c.

    =Lives that Shine.= Prov. 4:18--But the path of the just, &c.

    =Locusts as Food.= Matt. 3:4--His meat was locusts, &c.

    =Longevity, Recipes for.= Exod. 20:12--That thy days may be long,
       &c.;
      Prov. 3:1, 2--Length of days, and long life, &c.

    =Looking up.= Psalm 121:1--I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills,
       &c.

    =Loss, Gain in.= Phil. 3:8--I count all things but loss for the
       excellency, &c.

    =Lost Chords.= Psalm 143:5--I remember the days of old.

    =Lost, Finding the.= Luke 15:20--But when he was yet a great way
       off, &c.

    =Lost, Seeking the.= Luke 19:10--To seek and to save that which was
       lost, &c.;
      Luke 15:4--What man of you having a hundred sheep, &c.

    =Love.= 1 Peter 2:17--Love the brotherhood.

    =Love a Finality.= 1 Cor. 13:13--But now abideth faith, hope,
       charity, these three, but the greatest of these is charity.

    =Love Driving Out Fear.= 1 John 4:18--Fear hath torment, &c.

    =Love in Man.= 1 John 4:7--Love is of God.

    =Love Indestructible.= 1 Cor. 13:8--Charity (love) never faileth.

    =Love of Christ.= Heb. 2:14--Forasmuch then as the children are
       partakers, &c.

    =Love, Practical.= Mark 12:30--Thou shalt love ... with all thy
       heart, &c.

    =Love, Preservative.= 2 Cor. 2:14--Now thanks be unto God which
       always causeth us to triumph in Christ and maketh manifest the
       savor of his knowledge by us in every place.

    =Love’s Acceptable Offering.= Gen. 4:3–5--And in process of time it
       came to pass, &c.


                                   M

    =Magnanimity.= Prov. 24:17--Rejoice not when thine enemy faileth,
       and let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth.

    =Make-believe.= Rom. 6:11--Likewise reckon ye yourselves to be dead
       indeed unto sin.

    =Man as a Temple.= 1 Cor. 3:16--Ye are the temple of God.

    =Man, Value of a.= Gen. 19:1--And there came two angels to Sodom,
       &c.

    =Manhood.= Jer. 5:1--Run ye to and fro through the streets of
       Jerusalem and see now.... If ye can find a man, &c.

    =Manhood Recognized.= Matt. 10:6-15, 24--Lost sheep, &c.

    =Manliness.= 1 Cor. 16:13--Quit you like men, be strong.

    =Man’s Size.= Ps. 8:4--What is man that thou art mindful of him?
       &c.

    =Margins of Life.= 2 Peter 1:5--Giving all diligence, add to your
       faith virtue, &c.

    =Marking Time.= Exodus 14:15--Speak unto the children of Israel
       that they may go forward.

    =Marks, Covering.= Prov. 28:13--He that covereth his sins shall not
       prosper, &c.

    =Master Mind, The.= Phil. 2:5--Let this mind be in you which was
       also in Christ Jesus.

    =Mastery of Nature.= Ps. 8:6–8--Thou madest him to have dominion,
       &c.

    =Mean, The Golden.= 1 Cor. 10:13--Who will not suffer you to be
       tempted above what ye are able, &c.

    =Measure for Measure.= Matt. 7:10--With what measure ye mete, &c.

    =Measurement.= 2 Chron. 16:9--For the eyes of the Lord run to and
       fro throughout the whole earth, &c.

    =Mediation.= Eph. 4:32--Even as God for Christ’s sake hath forgiven
       you.

    =Memory.= Ps. 119:52--I remember thy judgments of old, O Lord; and
       have comforted myself.

    =Mercy, Limitation of.= Isa. 55:6--Seek ye the Lord, &c.

    =Message, A Welcome.= Gen. 8:11--The dove came to him, &c.

    =Methods in Religion.= John 10:16--And other sheep I have which are
       not of this fold, &c.

    =Ministry, Difficulties of the.= Acts 2:23–37--Him being delivered,
       &c.

    =Mind-healing.= Ps. 19:7–10--The law of the Lord is perfect, &c.

    =Miracles, Evidential Value of.= Ps. 107:35--He turneth dry ground
       into water springs.

    =Misery Exciting Sympathy.= Acts 17:16--His spirit was stirred in
       him, &c.

    =Misfortune, Superiority To.= Acts 20:24--But none of these move
       me, &c.

    =Mission Fruit.= Acts 4:13--And they took knowledge of them that
       they had been with Jesus.

    =Missionary Martyrdom.= Acts 20:29--Neither count I my life dear
       unto myself.

    =Missionary Results.= Mark 4:9--He that hath ears ... let him hear.

    =Models.= Eph. 4:13--Unto a perfect man, unto the measure, &c.

    =Modernity.= Isaiah 41:1--Keep silence before me, O islands, and
       let the people renew their strength, &c.

    =Modesty.= Luke 14:10, 11--But when thou art bidden, &c.

    =Mortality Resisted.= Hosea 7:9--Gray hairs are here and there upon
       him, yet he knoweth it not.

    =Motherhood in Animals.= Deut. 32:11--As an eagle stirreth up her
       nest, &c.

    =Mother Love in Birds.= Deut. 32:11--As the eagle ... fluttereth
       over her young.

    =Motive, Mercenary.= Matt. 6:16--They have their reward.

    =Music of Nature.= Ps. 19--Night unto night showeth knowledge;
      Job 38:7--Morning stars sang together, &c.

    =Music Reflects the Soul.= Ps. 137:4--How shall we sing the Lord’s
       song in a strange land?

    =Mutation.= 1 Cor. 7:31--... For the fashion of this world passeth
       away.

    =Mutualism.= Rom. 1:14--I am debtor, &c.

    =Myself.= Ps. 8:4--What is man that thou art mindful of him? &c.

    =Mystery in Nature.= Job 11:7--Canst thou by searching find out
       God?

    =Mystery No Bar to Belief.= John 20:29--Blessed are they that have
       not seen and yet have believed.

    =Mystery, Value of.= Ps. 2:4--If thou seek her and silver, and
       searchest for as for hid treasure.


                                   N

    =Names, Enduring.= Acts 4:12--None other name under heaven, &c.;
      Phil. 2:9--Name that is above every name.

    =Nature, Dual in Man.= Rom. 7:21--When I would do good evil is
       present.

    =Negative Teaching.= Gal. 5:14--For all the law is fulfilled, &c.

    =Neglect of Opportunity.= Eph. 5:16--Redeeming the time, &c.

    =Nervousness.= 1 Pet. 5:7--Casting all our care on him, &c.

    =New and Old.= Eccl. 1:9--No new thing under the sun.

    =New, Appetency for the.= Col. 3:9, 10--Seeing that ye have put off
       the old man with his deeds and have put on the new man.

    =New Birth.= 2 Cor. 5:17--If any man be in Christ ... all things
       are become new.

    =New Faiths.= 2 Cor. 5:17--All things are become new.

    =Night, God’s Presence in the.= Ps. 4:8--I will both lay me down in
       peace and sleep for thou Lord, &c.

    =Note, A False.= Job. 19:4--I have erred, &c.

    =Notoriety.= Matt. 6:2--That they may have glory of men, &c.

    =Nourishment from beneath.= Ps. 1:3--Like a tree planted by the
       rivers of water, &c.


                                   O

    =Oases.= Isa. 41:18--I will make ... dry land ... springs of water,
       &c.

    =Obedience.= Eph. 6:1--Children obey your parents in the Lord; for
       this is right.

    =Obedience in Spirit.= 2 Cor. 3:6--The letter killeth, &c.

    =Obligation to the Church.= Phil. 2:12--Work out your own
       salvation, &c.

    =Offerings Extravagant.= Ps. 4:5--Offer the sacrifices of
       righteousness;
      Ps. 116:17--I will offer sacrifices of thanksgiving;
      Exod. 30:9--Offer no strong incense.

    =Old Age Incurable.= Ps. 103:5--Thy youth is renewed like the
       eagle’s;
      Ps. 90:10--The days of our years are threescore and ten, &c.

    =Old, Encouragement to the.= Joel 2:28--Your old men shall dream
       dreams.

    =Old-year Memories.= (=Past, Forgetting the=).
      Phil. 3:13--Forgetting those things that are behind.

    =Omniscience.= Luke 8:17--For nothing is sacred that shall not be
       made manifest.

    =One, Winning.= Zach. 4:10.--Who hath dispersed the day of small
       things.

    =Opportunity.= Eph. 5:16--Redeeming the time.

    =Optimism.= Ps. 103:2--Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not
       all his benefits.

    =Organizing for Work.= Eph. 4:16--The whole body fitly joined
       together.

    =Ostentation.= Matt. 6:2--Do not sound a trumpet before thee, &c.

    =Others, Consideration for.= Phil. 2:4--Look ... every man also on
       things of others.

    =Overplus of Duty.= Matt. 5:41--And whosoever shall compel thee,
       &c.


                                   P

    =Pain, the Angel of.= 2 Cor. 12:9--Glory in my infirmities.

    =Painstaking.= Isa. 28:16--Therefore thus saith the Lord God, &c.

    =Palliatives versus Prevention.= Prov. 22:15--Foolishness is bound
       in the heart of a child, but the rod of correction shall drive
       it from him.

    =Panic Through Fear.= Ps. 53:5--There were they in great fear,
       where no fear was.

    =Parenthood in Savages.= Ps. 27:10--When my father and my mother
       forsake me, &c.

    =Partiality.= Prov. 3:5--Lean not unto thine own understanding.

    =Passion, Growth of.= Col. 3:5--Mortify therefore your members,
       &c.;
      Matt. 17:20--And Jesus said unto them, &c.

    =Patience.= Ps. 37:6--He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the
       light, &c.

    =Patriotism.= 2 Tim. 4:2--Reprove, rebuke, exhort with all
       long-suffering and doctrine.

    =Patriotism, Disinterested.= 1 Sam. 12:23--Moreover as for me, God
       forbid that I should sin, &c.

    =Pattern, The Divine.= Heb. 12:2--Looking into Jesus.

    =Peace.= Is. 9:6--... His name shall be called the Prince of Peace.

    =Pedigree.= Heb. 1:12--Thou art the same and thy years shall not
       fail.

    =Perishableness.= Heb. 1:11, 12--And thy years shall not fail.

    =Permanent, The.= 1 Cor. 3:13--Fire shall try every man’s work, &c.

    =Permanency.= Matt. 24:25--Heaven and earth shall pass away, &c.

    =Perseverance.= Gal. 6:9--Let us not be weary in well-doing, for in
       due season we shall reap if we faint not;
      John 8:29--The Father hath not left me alone;
      Matt. 18:20--Where two or three, &c.

    =Persistence.= Gal. 6:9--And let us not be weary in well-doing, &c.

    =Persistence in Missionaries.= Gal. 6:9--Let us not be weary in
       well-doing, &c.

    =Personal Element, The.= Matt. 17:18, 19--Why could not we cast him
       out?

    =Personal Evangelism.= Jas. 5:20--He that converteth the sinner ...
       shall snatch a soul from death.

    =Philanthropy.= Mark 2:17--I came not to call the righteous, but
       sinners to repentance.

    =Picturesque.= Matt. 13:35--I will open my mouth in parables.

    =Pilgrim, The.= Jer. 9:2--A lodging place for wayfaring men.

    =Place, Filling One’s.= 1 Cor. 12:12–22--For the body is one, &c.

    =Play Necessary.= Zach. 8:5--The streets ... shall be full of boys
       and girls playing, &c.

    =Point of View.= 1 Cor. 3:13--Every man’s work shall be made
       manifest.

    =Politeness.= Prov. 22:6--Train up a child, &c.

    =Post-mortem consequences.= I Tim. 5:24, 25--Some men’s sins are
       open-beforehand, going before to judgment, and some men they
       follow after, &c.

    =Poverty.= Ps. 107:41--Yet setteth he the poor on high.

    =Poverty, Christian.= 2 Cor. 6:10--As poor yet making many rich,
       &c.

    =Power in Self-repression.= Exod. 34:7--Keeping mercy for
       thousands, &c.;
      Num. 14:18--The Lord is long suffering, &c.

    =Power through Union with God.= Eph. 4:6--Strong in the Lord, &c.

    =Practical, the.= 1 Cor. 4:12--And labor, working with our own
       hands.

    =Practise.= Hebs. 5:14--By reason of use have their senses
       exercised to discern both good and evil;
      2 Peter 1:10--Give diligence to make your calling and election
        sure.

    =Praise.= Ps. 34:1--His praise shall be continually in my mouth,
       &c.

    =Praise-spirit, The.= Job 13:15--Tho he slay me, &c.

    =Prayer.= Jude 20--Prayer in the Holy Ghost.

    =Prayer and Effort.= Jas. 2:26--Faith without works is dead.

    =Prayer for Others.= Jer. 31:13--I will turn their mourning into
       joy.

    =Prayer in Secret.= Matt. 6:6--But thou when thou prayest, &c.

    =Prayer, The Call to.= Matt. 6:7--Use not vain repetitions as the
       heathen do.

    =Prayers, Views of.= Matt. 6:6--But thou when thou prayest, &c.

    =Preaching the Word.= 2 Tim. 4:2--Preach the word.

    =Precaution.= Joshua 11:15--He left nothing undone of all that the
       Lord commanded Moses.

    =Preparation.= Prov. 16:1--The preparations of the heart.

    =Presence of God.= Ps. 24:3, 4--He that hath clean hands and a
       pure, &c.

    =Presences Unrecognized.= Heb. 1:14--Are they not all ministering
       spirits.

    =Pride.= Prov. 16:18–29:23--Pride goeth before destruction, &c.

    =Pride in One’s Task.= Ps. 40:8--I delight to do thy will, O my
       God.

    =Principle.= Daniel 3:18--But if not, &c.

    =Prison Literature.= 1 Pet. 3:19--By which also he went and
       preached to the spirits in prison.

    =Privilege.= Acts 10:34--God is no respecter of persons.

    =Prodigal, The.= Luke 15:20--Ran and fell on his neck and kissed
       him, &c.;
      Ps. 27:10--When my father and mother forsake, &c.

    =Profession versus Character.= Matt. 7:21--Not every one that saith
       Lord, Lord, &c.

    =Professionalism.= Judges 16:20--I will go out as at other times
       before ... and he wist not that the Lord was departed from him.

    =Progress, Modern.= Eccl. 7:10--Say thou not, what is the cause
       that the former days were better than these, &c.

    =Promised Land, The.= Exod. 13:5--He sware unto thy fathers to give
       thee a land flowing with milk and honey.

    =Promises.= 2 Peter 1:4--Grace and peace be multiplied, &c.;
      Luke 6:38--Give and it shall be given unto you, &c.

    =Promises, Implied.= Luke 6:38--Give and it shall be given unto
       you, &c.

    =Proof.= 1 Peter. 3:15--Always ready ... to give a reason for this
       hope that is in you.

    =Proof by Experience.= 1 Kings 3:16–28--Then came there two women,
       &c.

    =Proper Nutrition.= Isa. 55:1--Every one that thirsteth, &c.

    =Prophecy.= Eccl. 8:7--For he knoweth not that which shall be: for
       who can tell him when it shall be.

    =Protection.= Jonah 4:6--And the Lord prepared a gourd and made it
       to come up over Jonah, &c.;
      Josh. 6:12–16--And Joshua rose early, &c.;
      Eph. 6:16--Above all, taking the shield of faith.

    =Protection, Unseen.= 2 Kings 6:17--Open his eyes that he may see.

    =Provocation, Silence Under.= Ps. 39:1--I will keep my mouth with a
       bridle.

    =Pruning to Destroy.= Matt. 5:30--If thy right hand offend thee,
       &c.

    =Punctiliousness.= Matt. 23:24--Strain out a gnat, &c.;
      Esther 4:11--Whosoever whether man or woman shall come unto the
        king ... who is not called, there is one law of his to put him
        to death, &c.

    =Punishment, Profitable.= Ps. 119:71--It is good for me that I have
       been afflicted: that I might learn thy statutes.

    =Purity.= Ps. 51:7--Wash me ... whiter than snow.;
      James 1:27--Unspotted from the world.

    =Purity of Associations.= Ps. 51:6, 7--Behold thou desirest truth,
       &c.


                                   Q

    =Quibbling.= James 2:10--Whosoever shall keep the whole law, and
       yet offend in one point, &c.

    =Quickening.= Eph. 2:1--And you hath he quickened, &c.

    =Quietness.= 1 Thess. 4:11--Study to be quiet;
      1 Peter 3:4--Ornament of a meek and quiet spirit.

    =Quietness in Danger.= Isa. 30:13--In quietness and confidence, &c.


                                   R

    =Race Loyalty.= 1 Cor. 9:27--But I keep under my body, &c.

    =Reasonable Religion.= 1 Pet. 3:15--A season of the hope that is in
       you.

    =Reasons.= Matt. 5:37--Let your communications be, &c.

    =Reclamation.= Is. 35:1--The wilderness and the solitary place
       shall be glad for them;
      Jas. 5:20--Converteth a sinner from error, &c.

    =Recognition by One’s Work.= Rev. 20:13--Any they were judged
       every man according to their works.

    =Record, Keeping the.= Eccl. 12:14--God shall bring every work into
       judgment.

    =Reflection, Imperfect.= Matt. 6:23--If the light in thee be
       darkness.

    =Reformation.= Rom. 12:2--Be ye transformed, &c.

    =Reformers, Erratic.= Jude 12--Carried about of winds, trees whose
       fruit withereth;
      Eph. 4:14--Carried about with every wind of doctrine.

    =Refreshing Springs.= Psalm 45:1--My heart is inditing (bubbleth
       up) a good matter.

    =Rejection of Christ.= Matt. 19:22--But when the young man heard,
       &c.

    =Religion, Allaying Fear.= Psalm 121:1--I will lift up mine eyes
       unto the hills, &c.

    =Religion, Family.= Gen. 18:19--For I know him that he will command
       his children, &c.

    =Religion versus Business.= Matt. 6:25--Is not the life more than
       meat, &c.

    =Reminders, Unpleasant.= Isa. 1:18--Tho your sins be as scarlet,
       &c.;
      Gal. 6:17--I bear on my body the marks of the Lord Jesus.

    =Renewal.= Ezek. 47:9--Everything shall live whither the river
       cometh, &c.

    =Renewal, Spiritual.= Acts 2:1-4--Day of Pentecost, &c.

    =Renovation.= Psalm 51:2--Cleanse me from my sins;
      Psalm 19:12--Cleanse thou me from secret faults.

    =Renunciation, Complete.= Matt. 6:24--Ye cannot serve God and
       mammon.

    =Repair of Character.= Isaiah 40:31--Shall renew their strength,
       &c.

    =Repayment.= Joel 3:7--And will return your recompense upon your
       own head, &c.

    =Repeated Effort.= Josh. 6:15--They compassed the city seven times.

    =Repentance, Practical.= Matt. 3:8--Bring forth therefore fruits
       worth repentance, &c.

    =Reputation.= Prov. 22:1--A good name is to be chosen, &c.

    =Rescue.= Gen. 19:15–22--And when the morning arose, &c.

    =Reservation.= Luke 18:29--There is no man that hath left house or
       parents, &c.

    =Resignation.= Mark 7:37--He hath done all things well;
      Psalm 127:2--It is vain for you to rise up early, &c.

    =Resolution.= Psalm 56:4--I will not fear, &c.

    =Resources, Making the Best of.= Eccl. 9:10--Whatsoever thy hand
       findeth, &c.

    =Resourcefulness.= Mark 2:4--And when they could not come nigh unto
       him for the press, they uncovered the roof where he was, &c.

    =Responsibility.= Matt. 27:24--I am innocent of the blood of this
       just person; see ye to it.

    =Restitution.= Ex. 22:3--For he should make full restitution.

    =Restoration in Nature.= Psalm 119:64--The earth, O Lord, is full
       of thy mercy.

    =Restoring God’s Image.= Gen. 2:27--God created man in his own
       image, &c.

    =Restraint.= Jer. 14:10--Thus saith the Lord unto his people, &c.;
      Psalm 119:101--I have refrained my feet, &c.;
      Prov. 1:15--My son, walk not thou, &c.;
      Amos. 2:14--The strong shall not strengthen his, &c.

    =Resurrection.= Heb. 11:4--He being dead yet speaketh, &c.

    =Retardation.= Luke 2:52--And Jesus increased in wisdom and
       stature, and in favor with God and man.

    =Retribution in the Individual.= Rom. 2:6--Who will render to every
       man according to his deeds;
      Ezek. 18:4--The soul that sinneth, it shall die.

    =Reverence for Parents.= Exod 20:12--Honor thy father and thy
       mother, &c.

    =Revivals.= Matt. 14:23--He went up into a mountain apart to pray.

    =Rewards, Spiritual.= Matt. 6:19--Lay not up for yourselves
       treasures upon earth, &c.

    =Riches, Imaginary.= Prov. 4:7--Wisdom is the principal thing, &c.

    =Riches, Unrealized.= Eph. 1:18--Riches of his glory, &c.

    =Right, Triumphs of.= Gal. 6:9--Be not weary in well-doing, &c.

    =Right versus Expediency.= Daniel 3--We are not careful to answer
       thee in this matter.


                                   S

    =Sabbath-breaking Rebuked.= Exod. 20:8--Remember the Sabbath day,
       &c.

    =Sabbath, Observing the.= Mark 2:27--Sabbath was made for man, &c.;
      Exod. 20:8--Remember the Sabbath day, &c.;
      Exod. 20:8--Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy.

    =Sacrifice.= Isa. 53:5--But he was wounded, &c.;
      John 15:13--Greater love hath no man than this, &c.

    =Sacrifice, Filial.= Rev. 7:14--These are they that come out of
       great tribulations, &c.

    =Sacrifice of Our Best.= Rom. 5:6--While we were yet without
       strength, &c.

    =Sacrifice, Vicarious.= Rom. 5:9--We shall be saved from wrath
       through him.

    =Safety from Water-brooks.= Psalm 42:1--As the hart panteth for the
       water brooks, &c.

    =Saved as by Fire.= 1 Cor. 3:15--He himself shall be saved, yet so
       as by fire.

    =Scars of War Healed.= Isa. 55:13--Instead of the thorn, &c.;
      Isa. 2:4--Neither shall they learn war any more.

    =Science, Devotion to.= Psalm 8:3, 4--When I consider thy heavens,
       &c.

    =Scruples, Minute.= Mark 7:8--For laying aside the commandments of
       God, ye hold the tradition of men, as the washing of pots and
       cups, &c.

    =Secret Things.= Deut 29:29--Secret things belong unto the Lord,
       &c.

    =Secrets.= Deut. 29:29--Secret things belong unto the Lord, &c.

    =Seeing, The Art of.= Mark 8:18--Having eyes, see ye not, &c.

    =Seeking and Finding.= Matt. 7:21--Not everyone that saith unto me,
       &c.

    =Self-confidence.= Gal. 1:10--For do I now please men?

    =Self-consciousness.= Luke 2:49--Wist ye not that I must be about
       my Father’s business?

    =Self-control.= Prov. 16:32--He that is slow to anger, &c.

    =Self-depreciation.= Rom. 12:3--Not to think of himself more highly
       than he ought to think.

    =Self-effacement.= Rom. 12:3--Not to think of himself more highly
       than he ought to think.

    =Self-flattery.= Prov. 27:2--Let another man praise thee, &c.

    =Self, Forgetting.= Matt. 16:25--Whosoever will save his life, &c.

    =Self-help.= Eccl. 11:6--Thou knowest not whether shall prosper,
       &c.

    =Self-hidden.= Judges 7:16--Empty pitchers and lamps within the
       pitchers, &c.

    =Self-limitations.= Isa. 54:2--Enlarge the place of thy tent, &c.

    =Self-measurement.= Rom. 12:3--Not to think more highly of himself
       than he ought, &c.

    =Self-sacrifice.= John 15:13--Greater love hath no man than this;
      1 Tim. 2:5, 6--Christ Jesus, who gave himself a ransom for all.

    =Selfishness.= Acts 20:35--It is more blessed to give than to
       receive.

    =Selfishness Rebuked.= Phil. 2:4--Look not every man on his own
       things, &c.

    =Sensitiveness.= Psalm 19:4--Their line is gone out through all the
       earth, &c.;
      1 Sam. 25:3--But the man was churlish, &c.

    =Sentiment Useless.= Jas. 2:16--And one of you say ... be ye
       warned, &c.

    =Separation.= Isaiah 59:2--Your sins have separated between you and
       your God, &c.

    =Serenity in Life.= 1 Peter 5:7--Casting all your care upon him,
       &c.

    =Service.= Luke 2:49--Wist ye not, &c.;
      Matt. 20:28--The Son of man came not to be ministered unto but
        to minister;
      Gal. 5:13--By love serve one another.

    =Service and Sacrifice.= 1 John 3:16--We ought to lay down our
       lives, &c.

    =Shame.= Jas. 1:23–24--A man beholding his natural face in the
       glass, &c.

    =Shams.= Matt. 23:14--Ye devour widows’ houses and for pretense
       make long prayers, &c.;
      Matt. 23:27--Whited sepulchers;
      Matt. 10:26--There is nothing hid ... that shall not be made
        known.

    =Shepherd, the Good.= John 10:1–16--Good shepherd.

    =Signals.= 1 Kings 19:12--And after the fire a still small voice.

    =Sin, Fascination of.= Prov. 16:25--There is a way that seemeth
       right, &c.

    =Sin, Original.= James 1:15--When lust hath conceived it bringeth
       forth sin, &c.

    =Sin, Sense of.= Rom. 7:13--That sin ... might become exceedingly
       sinful.

    =Sin Without Atonement.= Joel 2:25--And I will restore to you the
       years, &c.

    =Sins, Pet.= James 1:15--Sin when it is finished, &c.

    =Sins of Youth.= Psalm 25:7--Remember not, the sins of my youth.

    =Size not Power.= Psalm 8:4–6--What is man that thou art mindful
       of him, &c.

    =Skill with Tenderness.= John 11:35--Jesus wept.

    =Slave, for the Gospel’s Sake.= Eph. 6:20--An ambassador in bonds.

    =Slaves of Pleasure.= 2 Tim. 3:4--Lovers of pleasure more than
       lovers of God.

    =Small Evils Hardest to Bear.= Job 14:19--The waters wear the
       stones.

    =Snobbery Rebuked.= Roman 12:3--For I say through the grace given
       unto me, &c.

    =Social Christianity.= Jer. 23:29--Is not my word like as a fire,
       &c.

    =Social Interdependence.= 1 Cor. 12:26--And whether one member
       suffer, &c.

    =Social Progress.= Malachi 3:16--Then they that feared the Lord
       spoke often one to another, &c.

    =Solidarity.= Rom. 14:7--None of us liveth to himself, &c.

    =Solidity of Old Truths.= 1 Thes. 5:21--Hold fast to that which is
       good, &c.

    =Solitude, Lesson of.= Psalm 139:18--When I am awake I am still
       with thee.

    =Solitude, Training in.= Job. 35:10--Giveth songs in the night.

    =Song and Suffering.= Acts 16:25--And at midnight Paul and Silas
       prayed and sang praises unto God, and the prisoners heard them.

    =Song in the Night.= Job. 35:10--Giveth songs in the night.

    =Song, the Gospel in.= Eph. 5:19--Speaking to yourselves, &c.

    =Sorrow for a Lost Cause.= Joel 2:25--And I will restore to you the
       years, &c.

    =Soul, Your.= Matt. 18:3--Except ye be converted and become as
       little children, &c.

    =Sowing and Reaping.= Gal. 6:7--Whatsoever a man soweth, &c.

    =Spirit, Fruit of.= Eph. 5:9--Fruit of the Spirit, &c.

    =Spirits, Watching.= Heb. 12:1--Wherefore seeing we also are
       compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, &c.

    =Spiritual Declension.= Isaiah 63:11--Then he remembered the days
       of old, &c.

    =Spiritual Nobility.= Isaiah 53:2--There is no beauty that we
       should desire him;
      Heb. 13: 2--Some have entertained angels unawares.

    =Stagnancy.= Rev. 3:1--Thou hast a name that thou livest, and art
       dead.

    =Steadiness of Providence.= Isaiah 42:4--He shall not fail nor be
       discouraged till he hath set judgment in the earth, &c.;
      Isa. 59:9--As the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my
        ways, &c.

    =Stedfastness.= Eph. 6:13--Having done all to stand.

    =Straight Character.= Matt. 7:14--Straight is the gate and narrow
       is the way, &c.

    =Strain, Nervous.= Esther 8:6--For how can I endure to see the evil
       that shall come upon our people? &c.

    =Strength, Secret Source of.= Gal. 1:15, 16--I conferred not with
       flesh and blood, &c.;
      Psalm 25:14--The secret of the Lord is with, &c.

    =Substances, Penetrating.= Psalm 18:35--Thy gentleness hath made me
       great.

    =Substitution.= Matt. 8:17--Himself took our infirmities and bare
       our sickness.

    =Subtlety.= Gen. 3:1--Now the serpent was more subtle, &c.

    =Success.= Jer. 17:11--He that getteth riches but not by right,
       shall leave them in the midst of his days, and at his end shall
       be a fool.

    =Success too Dear.= Matt. 16:26--What shall a man give in exchange
       for his soul?

    =Suffering, Fellowship with Christ’s.= Phil. 3:10--That I may know
       him ... and the fellowship of his suffering, &c.

    =Suffering Transformed.= Rom. 8:18--The sufferings of this present
       time are not worthy to be compared, &c.

    =Suffering, Universal.= Rom. 8:22--The whole creation groaneth, &c.

    =Suicide Prevented.= Acts 16:28--Do thyself no harm.

    =Sunday Recorded.= Exod. 20:8–10--Six days shalt thou labor, &c.

    =Sunlight and Starlight.= Isa. 60:19--The sun shall be no more thy
       light by day, &c.

    =Sunshine.= Dan. 12:3--They that be wise shall shine, &c.

    =Surface Lives.= John 4:10-15--Woman of Samaria.

    =Synchronism.= Phil. 3:16--Let us walk by the same rule, let us
       mind the same thing.

    =System in Labor.= 1 Cor. 14:40--Let all things be done ... in
       order.


                                   T

    =Tact.= 1 Cor. 9:22--All things to all men, &c.

    =Talents, Buried.= Matt. 25:14–30--For the kingdom of Heaven, &c.

    =Talents Differ.= 1 Cor. 12:4--Diversities of gifts.

    =Teacher’s Function, The.= James 1:23, 24--Like unto a man
       beholding his natural face in a glass, &c.

    =Temperance.= 1 Cor. 9:25--And every man that striveth for the
       mastery is temperate in all things, &c.

    =Temptation.= Matt. 6:13--Lead us not into temptation;
      Rom. 12:21--Overcome evil with good.

    =Temptation, Plausibility of.= James 1:13--Let no man say, &c.;
      Matt. 6:13--And lead us not into temptation, &c.

    =Temptation Resisted.= Matt. 4:8--All the kingdoms of the world,
       &c.

    =Tenderness.= Matt. 12:19, 20--He shall not strive, &c.

    =Tension, Moral.= Acts 27:23--God, whose I am and whom I serve.

    =Testimony, A Sheep’s.= John 10:4--For they know his voice, &c.

    =Testimony of Work.= Acts 9:39--Showing the coats and garments
       which Dorcas made, &c.

    =Tests.= 1 Cor. 3:13--Every man’s work shall be made manifest, &c.;
      1 Cor. 3:13--The fire shall try every man’s work, &c.;
      Phil. 1:10--Sincere and without offense, &c.

    =Thanks, the Solace of.= 1 Tim. 4:4--If it be received with
       thanksgiving.

    =Theology as a Discipline.= Job, 11:7--Canst thou by searching find
       out God, &c.

    =Thoroughness.= Eccl. 9:10--Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do do it
       with thy might, &c.

    =Time, the Present.= James 4:13, 14--Go to now, ye that say, &c.

    =Timeliness of God.= Isaiah 65:24--Before they call I will answer,
       &c.

    =Timidity.= Prov. 29:25--The fear of man bringeth a snare, &c.

    =To-day.= Heb. 3:15--To-day if ye will hear his voice.

    =To-morrow, Uncertainty of.= James 4:14--Whereas ye know not what
       shall be on the morrow.

    =Tongue, the.= James 3:8--But the tongue can no man tame.

    =Toughness.= 2 Tim. 2:4--Thou, therefore, endure hardness, &c.

    =Tradition.= Col. 2:8--Beware lest any man spoil you through
       philosophy and vain deceit, after the traditions of men, &c.

    =Tradition, Unmeaning.= Matt. 15:1–3--Then came to Jesus scribes
       and Pharisees, &c.

    =Training.= 1 Cor. 9:27--I keep under my body, &c.

    =Transformation.= Rom. 13:12--Let us therefore cast off the works
       of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light;
      Eph. 5:8--Ye were once darkness but now are ye light in the Lord.

    =Transformation by renewing.= Prov. 4:23--Keep thy heart with all
       diligence, &c.

    =Transiency of the Earth.= Rev. 21:1--And I saw a new heaven and a
       new earth; for the first heaven and the first earth were passed
       away; and there was no more sea.

    =Transient, The.= 2 Peter 3:11--Seeing then that all these things
       shall be dissolved, &c.

    =Transmission.= Exod. 20:5, 6--Thou shalt not bow down, &c.

    =Traps for Girls.= 1 Peter 5:8--The devil, as a roaring lion,
       walketh about, &c.

    =Tree and Fruit.= Matt. 7:17--Every good tree bringeth forth good
       fruit, &c.

    =Tribulation the Path of Glory.= Acts 14:22--We must through much
       tribulation enter into the Kingdom of God.

    =Triumph by Selection.= Eph. 4:22--That ye put off ... the old man
       which is corrupt, &c.

    =Triumph in Death.= Act. 20:24--But none of these things move me,
       &c.

    =Trouble.= Heb. 12:11--Nevertheless, afterward.

    =Truth, Girdle of.= Eph. 6:14--Having your loins girt, &c.

    =Truthfulness Rewarded.= Matt. 6:33--Seek ye first the kingdom of
       God, &c.


                                   U

    =Unbelief.= Matt. 16:18--On this rock will I build my church, &c.

    =Unconscious Greatness.= Rom. 12:3--Not to think more highly of
       himself, &c.

    =Unemployed, Problem of the.= Matt. 20:6, 7--And about the eleventh
       hour he went out, &c.

    =Unexpected, The.= Prov. 16:9--A man’s heart deviseth his way, but,
       &c.

    =Union with Christ.= Gal. 2:20--I live, yet not I, &c.

    =Unity.= Eph. 2:14--Who hath made both one;
      Rom. 7:18–25--When I would do good evil is present, &c.

    =Unity Fundamental in Nature.= Col. 1:16, 17--For by him were all
       things created.

    =Unknown Saints.= Matt. 20:16--The Last shall be first, &c.

    =Unseen, Response from the.= 2 Cor. 4:18--For the things which are
       seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal.

    =Unseen Results.= Gal. 6:9--Not ... weary in well doing, &c.

    =Unselfishness.= 1 Thess. 5:18--In everything give thanks, &c.

    =Uprightness.= Psalm 25:21--Let ... uprightness preserve me.

    =Upward Look, The.= Psalm 5:3--I will look up;
      Psalm 121:1--I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, &c.

    =Utilizing Seaweed.= John 6:12--Gather up the fragments, &c.

    =Utterance.= Luke 12:2--Nothing covered that shall not be revealed,
       &c.


                                   V

    =Vanity in Death.= Psalm 39:11--His beauty to consume away like a
       moth, &c.

    =Verbiage.= Matt. 6:7--They think they shall be heard for their
       much speaking.

    =Vicarious Sacrifice.= John 3:16--Gave his only begotten son, &c.

    =Victory.= Eph. 4:8--He led captivity captive, &c.

    =View, The Near and Far.= Mark 6:49--But when they saw him walking
       on the sea, they supposed it had been a spirit and cried out,
       &c.

    =Vigilance.= Matt. 24:43, 44--Take ye heed, watch and pray.

    =Vision of Jesus.= 1 Cor. 9:1--Have I not seen Jesus, &c.

    =Vision Restored.= John 14:9--He that hath seen me hath seen the
       Father.

    =Voice of God.= Deut. 4:31--Be obedient unto his voice, &c.

    =Vulgarity in the Rich.= Psalm 49:6--They that trust in their
       wealth and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches,
       &c.


                                   W

    =Walking for Inspiration.= Gen. 24:63--And Isaac went out to
       meditate in the field at the eventide, &c.

    =Walking with God.= Gen. 5:24--Enoch walked with God.

    =War, The Horrors of.= Isa. 2:4--Neither shall they learn war any
       more.

    =Warmth, Lost.= Heb. 10:25--Not forsaking the assembling of
       ourselves together.

    =Waste.= Eccl. 1:7--All the rivers run into the sea, &c.

    =Waste by Drink.= Prov. 23:31, 32--Look not thou upon the wine, &c.

    =Wastes, Moral.= Matt. 5:13--If the salt have lost its savor, &c.

    =Watchfulness against Enemies.= 2 Tim. 4:5--Watch thou in all
       things.

    =Water of Life.= John 4:14--In him, a well of water, &c.

    =Way, the Right.= Prov. 14:12--There is a way that seemeth good
       unto a man, &c.

    =Wayward, Seeking the.= Ezek. 34:12--So will I seek out my sheep,
       &c.;
      Luke 15:4–6--The ninety and nine, &c.

    =Weakness, Consideration for.= Phil. 2:4--Look not every man on his
       own things, &c.

    =Wealth.= Mark 10:25--Easier for a camel, &c.

    =Will of God.= Psalm 40:8--I delight to do thy will, O my God.

    =Will, The.= Rev. 3:20--I stand at the food and knock, &c.

    =Wisdom of the Ignorant.= Matt. 21:16--Out of the mouths of babes,
       &c.

    =Woman’s Sphere.= Titus 2:5--Keepers at home.

    =Word in Season.= Prov. 15:23--A word spoken in due season, how
       good is it.

    =Word of God Freed.= 2 Tim. 2:9--But the word of God is not bound.

    =Word, The, a Hammer.= Jer. 23:28, 29--And a hammer to break the
       rock in pieces.

    =Work.= Mark 1:17--Come ye after me, and I will make you to become
       fishers of men;
      Prov. 22:29--A man diligent in his business, &c.;
      Prov. 12:4--A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband, &c.

    =Work Proving Religion.= 1 Cor. 3:13--The fire shall try every
       man’s work, &c.

    =Work versus Worker.= Micah 6:8--He hath showed thee, &c.

    =Working Together.= Rom. 8:28--All things work together for good,
       &c.

    =Working with God.= 1 Cor. 3:9--Laborers together with God.

    =Wounds that Speak.= Luke 24:39--Behold my hands and my feet, that
       it is myself, &c.

    =Wrong Retroactive.= Rom. 2:1--Wherein thou judgest another, thou
       condemnest thyself.


                                   Y

    =Years, The Unreturning.= Psalm 90:9--We spend our years as a tale
       that is told, &c.

    =Youth, Useful.= 1 Tim. 4:12--Let no man despise thy youth.




                   INDEX OF TEXTS IN BIBLICAL ORDER

[In this index are recorded Bible references to such texts as are
judged to be appropriate to illustrations in this volume. The number
found after each reference is the number of the illustration to which
the text belongs.]


    Genesis, 1:2, 1803
      1:28, 56
      2:27, 2750
      3:1, 3087
      4:3–5, 1926
      4:9, 883
      4:10, 262
      6:4, 1308
      8:11, 2020
      8:22, 872
      16:13, 1010
      18:19, 2660
      19:1, 1959
      19:15–22, 2711
      19:17, 725
      21:6, 1761
      24:63, 3417
      43:31, 1314
      45:27, 816
      50:20, 1271

    Exodus, 13:5, 2546
      14:15, 1972
      16:7, 670
      20:5, 826
      20:5, 6, 3280
      20:8, 2795, 2798, 2799
      20:8–10, 3110
      20:12, 1881, 2772
      22:3, 2745
      23:2, 581
      30:9, 2236
      32:19, 723
      34:7, 2418

    Leviticus, 26:36, 126
      27:8, 935

    Numbers, 10:29, 436
      14:18, 2418
      32:23, 703, 1475

    Deuteronomy, 4:31, 3412
      25:13, 701
      28:13, 1504
      29:29, 2846, 2847
      32:11, 2107, 2116
      33:27, 1258
      34:1, 889

    Joshua, 6:12–16, 2568
      6:15, 2693
      7:23, 19
      11:15, 2464
      23:13, 760

    Judges, 7:16, 2876
      10:14, 761
      16:20, 2529

    1 Samuel, 8:3, 1606
      9:2, 635
      12:23, 2319
      16:7, 118
      21:8, 897
      25:3, 2902

    2 Samuel, 9:1, 87
      12:23, 359
      22:36, 1213
      22:47, 1451

    1 Kings, 3:16–28, 2554
      18:21, 1651
      19:12, 2942

    2 Kings, 6:17, 2572
      19:14, 1573

    1 Chronicles, 22:15, 862

    2 Chronicles, 2:14, 34
      16:9, 1997

    Nehemiah, 2:11, 415

    Esther, 4:11, 2583
      4:16, 1409
      8:6, 3067

    Job, 5:19, 1248
      11:7, 2145, 3219
      11:17, 49
      13:15, 2433
      14:19, 2981
      19:4, 2203
      20:27, 1328
      27:19, 1005
      29:3, 665
      35:10, 3001, 3007
      38:7, 2136
      38:22, 1799

    Psalms, 1:3, 1171, 2205
      2:4, 2149
      4:5, 2236
      4:8, 1252, 2200
      5:3, 3355
      7:16, 422, 967
      8:3, 4, 2835
      8:4, 1968, 2144
      8:4–6, 2967
      8:6–8, 1987
      14:1, 1603
      19, 1250, 2136
      19:1–3, 1236
      19:4, 2902
      19:7–10, 2027
      19:12, 2686
      23:5, 330
      24:3, 4, 2486
      24:4, 467
      25:7, 2963
      25:14, 3076
      25:21, 3353
      27:10, 1070, 2305, 2523
      30:5, 1021, 1834
      32:1, 162
      32:8, 396, 434
      34:1, 2430
      36:9, 1841
      37:5, 472, 567
      37:6, 2314
      39:1, 2578
      39:11, 3382
      40:8, 2508, 3471
      41:2, 150
      42:1, 2817
      42:3, 644
      43:3, 355
      45:1, 2644
      46:4, 648, 1361
      49:6, 3414
      50:15, 1248
      51:1, 882
      51:2, 2686
      51:6, 7, 2597
      51:7, 468, 2595
      51:9, 882
      53:5, 2296
      55:13, 1270
      55:19, 782
      55:22, 1495
      56:4, 2723
      59:3, 269
      63:1, 950
      64:6, 998
      73:24, 1324
      76:10, 163
      78:52, 434
      90:9, 3521
      90:9, 10, 288
      90:10, 2241
      91:16, 16
      94:9, 742
      103:2, 2266
      103:5, 2241
      106:33, 93
      107:30, 1792
      107:35, 2034
      107:41, 2413
      112:2, 1564
      116:17, 2236
      119:11, 221
      119:52, 2005
      119:64, 2749
      119:67, 791
      119:71, 2587
      119:97–102, 238
      119:101, 2751
      119:105, 215, 216, 775
      121:1, 891, 1383, 1885, 2656, 3355
      121:4, 1256
      123:2, 975
      127:1, 252
      127:2, 2717
      137:4, 2138
      139:12, 661
      139:17, 1257
      139:18, 254, 3000
      143:5, 1889
      147:9, 1046

    Proverbs, 1:10, 65, 66, 920
      1:15, 2751
      3:1, 2, 1881
      3:5, 2308
      4:7, 2780
      4:18, 1870
      4:23, 3276
      6:6, 1596
      8:11, 343
      11:24, 1190
      12:4, 3497
      13:12, 1442
      13:20, 1160
      14:12, 3452
      15:1, 103
      15:23, 3491
      16:1, 2481
      16:3, 567
      16:5, 582
      16:9, 3322
      16:18, 2504, 2506
      16:25, 954, 2954
      16:31, 1535
      16:32, 2864
      17:22, 1467, 1761
      20:1, 827
      22:1, 2705
      22:6, 164, 1065, 1555, 2405
      22:7, 1005
      22:15, 2295
      22:22, 1679
      22:29, 3497
      23:7, 1825
      23:21, 1653
      23:31, 1652
      23:31, 32, 3439
      23:33, 465
      24:17, 1945
      24:26, 486
      26:4, 514
      26:12, 510
      27:2, 2872
      28:1, 538
      28:13, 1003, 1973
      29:23, 2504
      29:25, 3246
      30:18, 19, 1641

    Ecclesiastes, 1:7, 3437
      1:9, 2192
      1:10, 92
      2:20, 1337
      3:4, 1757
      3:11, 821
      7:4, 1298
      7:10, 33, 2537
      8:1, 593, 1013
      8:7, 2557
      9:10, 901, 1360, 1584, 2728, 3231
      10:8, 548
      10:11, 273
      11:1, 1356
      11:6, 2874
      12:1, 849
      12:8, 1820
      12:11, 869
      12:13, 1080
      12:14, 1081, 2633
      12:41, 181

    Song of Solomon, 2:15, 1868

    Isaiah, 1:18, 549, 737, 2680
      2:4, 50, 2834, 3427
      3:4, 1318
      9:6, 2325
      11:6, 1277
      11:9, 1479
      11:16, 357
      26:19, 1534
      28:10, 695
      28:16, 2293
      30:13, 2605
      30:16, 524
      32:2, 498, 1682
      35:1, 2628
      35:10, 1643
      40:9, 890
      40:31, 572, 2690
      41:1, 2077
      41:18, 2211
      42:4, 3057
      43:10, 1304
      45:2, 1020
      45:3, 666
      48:22, 1345
      49:4, 777
      50:7, 598
      53:2, 3043
      53:3, 406
      53:5, 2804
      53:9, 776
      54:2, 2879
      55:1, 2210
      55:2, 1364
      55:6, 2016
      55:9, 3057
      55:13, 426, 2834
      57:15, 1234
      58:10, 1200
      58:11, 434
      59:2, 2907
      59:9, 738
      60:19, 3114
      61:3, 69
      63:11, 3040
      65:24, 3245

    Jeremiah, 5:1, 1960
      8:7, 1649
      8:20, 727
      8:22, 1280
      9:2, 2374
      14:10, 2751
      17:11, 3089
      23:28, 29, 3495
      23:29, 1104, 2986
      31:13, 2450
      31:29, 30, 1396
      31:34, 1183

    Lamentations, 3:31–33, 43

    Ezekiel, 8:12, 1517
      11:19, 1349
      18:4, 2766
      34:12, 3453
      34:18, 739
      47:9, 648, 2683

    Daniel, 3:16, 2785
      3:18, 2510
      12:3, 1835, 3116

    Hosea, 4:6, 1490
      7:9, 870, 2099

    Joel, 2:25, 2959, 3011
      2:25, 26, 605
      2:28, 2242
      3:7, 2692

    Amos, 2:14, 2752
      5:8, 681

    Jonah, 4:6, 2567

    Micah, 6:8, 3507
      7:8, 1029

    Habakkuk, 2:5, 1417

    Zachariah, 4:10, 2248
      8:5, 2386

    Malachi, 3:10, 1223
      3:16, 2989
      4:2, 669

    Matthew, 3:4, 1876
      3:8, 521, 1136, 2697
      4:8, 3193
      4:19, 1106
      5:8, 157
      5:13, 3443
      5:14, 440, 1840
      5:16, 1832, 1833, 1853
      5:30, 2579
      5:37, 2622
      5:41, 2284
      5:42, 529
      5:45, 1527
      5:48, 1807
      6:1–4, 67
      6:2, 2204, 2278
      6:6, 2451, 2455
      6:7, 2454, 3383
      6:13, 3190, 3192
      6:14, 15, 1132
      6:16, 1069, 2119
      6:19, 1673, 2779
      6:20, 1815
      6:21, 1113
      6:23, 2639
      6:24, 2689
      6:25, 342, 2667
      6:28, 1110
      6:30, 1046
      6:33, 3313
      7:1, 654
      7:10, 1996
      7:11, 1033
      7:12, 459
      7:13, 14, 660
      7:14, 1116, 1570, 3066
      7:15, 794
      7:17, 3289
      7:21, 710, 711, 951, 2528, 2852
      7:35, 992
      8:17, 1351, 3086
      9:21, 560
      10:6, 1961
      10:8, 1212
      10:9, 10, 1034
      10:22, 908
      10:26, 2932
      10:32, 179
      11:28, 1471
      11:28–30, 1384
      12:19, 20, 3198
      13:7, 385
      13:14, 15, 1634
      13:31, 32, 1322
      13:33, 1813
      13:35, 2372
      14:23, 2775
      15:1–3, 3266
      15:14, 997
      15:18, 1054
      15:24, 1961
      16:18, 3317
      16:24, 25, 795
      16:25, 2873
      16:26, 3096
      17:18–19, 2352
      17:20, 2310
      18:2–4, 362
      18:3, 3021
      18:10, 369
      18:12, 1592
      18:20, 2341
      19:22, 2651
      20:6, 7, 3321
      20:16, 3338
      20:28, 2914
      21:16, 3477
      23:3, 992, 1574
      23:14, 2930
      23:23, 329
      23:24, 2582
      23:27, 958, 2931
      24:25, 2332
      24:42, 1689
      24:43, 44, 3400
      25:10, 981
      25:14–30, 3170
      25:35, 38, 43, 1531
      25:40, 1195, 1312
      26:52, 1771
      27:22, 408
      27:24, 2736
      28:19, 186
      28:20, 393

    Mark, 1:17, 3496
      2:4, 2725
      2:5–9, 339
      2:17, 2366
      2:27, 2797
      4:5, 1168
      4:9, 2056
      6:49, 3398
      7:8, 2841
      7:37, 2716
      8:18, 2851
      9:28, 1209
      10:25, 3458
      10:29, 1411
      11:24, 105
      12:30, 1919
      16:15, 949

    Luke, 1:52, 1779
      2:30–32, 417
      2:49, 2863, 2912
      2:52, 2761
      5:10, 1107
      5:30, 1739
      6:38, 2548, 2550
      6:44, 1169
      7:37, 38, 1125
      8:17, 2246
      9:51, 772
      12:2, 3372
      12:24, 1027
      12:32, 527
      14:10, 11, 2081
      14:15–24, 982
      15:4, 1893
      15:4–6, 3453
      15:18, 1075
      15:20, 1072, 1891, 2522
      16:8, 184
      16:9, 140
      18:8, 1577
      18:13, 115
      18:14, 1460
      18:17, 1031
      18:29, 2714
      19:10, 551, 1269, 1869, 1892
      21:1, 2, 1392
      23:42, 1461
      24:39, 3519

    John, 1:41, 42, 1202
      2:5, 1115
      2:24, 25, 1587
      3:4, 570, 575
      3:5, 1319
      3:16, 3387
      3:20, 662, 1831, 1850
      4:10–15, 3129
      4:14, 3447, 3448
      4:35, 1750
      4:37, 1000
      5:8, 9, 607
      5:36, 418
      6:12, 591, 3370
      7:17, 944
      7:24, 116, 1696
      7:37, 38, 152
      7:51, 732
      8:10, 11, 1122
      8:12, 405, 1849
      8:16, 392
      8:29, 2341
      8:32, 1151
      10:1–16, 2934
      10:3, 1484
      10:4, 3201
      10:7, 399
      10:16, 2022
      10:35, 2968
      12:24, 1091
      13:4, 5, 1310
      13:5–15, 1462
      14:3, 1540
      14:9, 3407
      15:1–5, 409
      15:2, 513
      15:4, 1666
      15:13, 2806, 2889
      15:14, 1115
      15:15, 1159
      17:21, 448
      20:29, 2147

    Acts, 1:26, 475
      2:1–4, 2685
      2:23–37, 2030
      4:12, 2151
      4:13, 2042
      6:8, 1032
      9:39, 3205
      10:34, 2517
      10:34, 35, 380
      14:22, 3292
      16:25, 3003
      16:28, 3105
      17:16, 2038
      17:26, 463, 1398, 1452
      17:28, 805, 1253
      20:24, 2039, 3294
      20:29, 2053
      20:35, 1192, 1347, 2894
      27:23, 3200

    Romans, 1:14, 2142
      1:16, 630
      1:20, 258, 1674, 1675
      1:23, 96
      1:26, 543
      2:1, 3520
      2:6, 2766
      2:7, 1543
      5:6, 2811
      5:9, 2814
      5:12, 685, 969
      6:11, 1949
      6:23, 694
      7:13, 202, 389, 2957
      7:18–25, 3330
      7:21, 2158
      7:23, 834
      7:25, 658
      8:3, 1762
      8:18, 3100
      8:21, 1783
      8:22, 247, 3102
      8:24, 25, 1441
      8:28, 3508
      8:29, 886
      10:10, 1367, 1369
      11:33, 1259
      11:36, 1246
      12:2, 154, 930, 2641
      12:3, 2866, 2868, 2881, 2985, 3318
      12:9, 107
      12:11, 301
      12:13, 1391
      12:14, 650
      12:17, 1123
      12:20, 913
      12:21, 3191
      13:12, 663, 3273
      14:7, 2998
      16:9, 438

    1 Corinthians, 1:25, 51
      2:9, 1855
      2:10, 713, 714
      3:6, 586
      3:9, 3509
      3:10, 1000
      3:11, 1142
      3:13, 1103, 2333, 2398, 3206, 3207, 3504
      3:15, 2831
      3:16, 1953
      3:18, 388
      3:21, 1798
      4:2, 1049
      4:12, 2423
      5:6, 927
      5:7, 1035
      7:31, 2140
      9:1, 3406
      9:16, 547
      9:20, 532
      9:22, 3166
      9:25, 851, 907, 3183
      9:27, 2606, 3267
      10:13, 1993
      12:4, 3171
      12:6, 813
      12:12–17, 425
      12:12–22, 2377
      12:14–21, 1457
      12:26, 1358, 2988
      13:4, 932
      13:8, 1911
      13:12, 1179
      13:13, 1900
      14:20, 718
      14:40, 3160
      15:25, 1275
      15:26, 694
      16:13, 1963

    2 Corinthians, 2:14, 1920
      2:6, 2218
      3:10, 1516
      3:18, 1525
      4:13, 1739
      4:17, 1184
      4:18, 495, 3344
      5:1, 1449
      5:4, 1427
      5:17, 572, 2194, 2195
      6:2, 1264
      6:10, 1695, 2415
      11:14, 199
      12:9, 2292

    Galatians, 1:10, 2860
      1:15, 16, 3076
      2:13, 1051
      2:20, 347, 390, 3327
      3:10, 517
      5:1, 1148
      5:7, 848
      5:13, 2915
      6:2, 295, 971
      6:7, 3023
      6:9, 2336, 2339, 2345, 2347, 2784, 3345
      6:14, 632, 633
      6:17, 2680
      15:1, 253

    Ephesians, 1:14, 1425
      1:18, 2781
      2:1, 679, 692, 2602
      2:8, 1286
      2:14, 3329
      2:21, 1551
      3:12, 145
      6:10–17, 131
      4:6, 2420
      4:8, 3394
      4:13, 2075
      4:14, 2643
      4:16, 2272
      4:22, 3293
      4:30, 550
      4:32, 2000
      5:8, 3274
      5:9, 3034
      5:16, 1487, 1565, 2181, 2257
      5:19, 3008
      5:27, 446
      6:1, 2215
      6:11, 1326
      6:13, 3059
      6:14, 3312
      6:16, 2569
      6:20, 2973

    Philippians, 1:10, 3208
      1:21, 411
      1:27, 501
      2:4, 2281, 2894, 3455
      2:5, 1983
      2:6–8, 412
      2:9, 1414, 2151
      2:12, 2221
      3:8, 1888
      3:10, 3098
      3:13, 2245
      3:13, 14, 783
      3:14, 149
      3:16, 3159
      3:17, 1774
      3:19, 859
      3:20, 460
      4:4, 1692, 1693
      4:6, 317
      4:11, 23
      4:13, 4

    Colossians, 1:16, 17, 3331
      1:17, 1740
      2:8, 3265
      3:1, 747
      3:5, 2310
      3:9, 10, 2193

    1 Thessalonians, 4:11, 2604
      5:16, 3347
      5:21, 2999

    1 Timothy, 2:5, 6, 2890
      4:4, 3214
      4:12, 3524
      4:15, 136
      5:6, 679
      5:24–35, 2411
      6:12, 34
      6:16, 1142
      6:19, 1142

    2 Timothy, 1:12, 394, 996
      2:1, 902
      2:3, 1350
      2:4, 3264
      2:9, 3493
      3:4, 2977
      3:5, 1138
      3:13, 722, 1320
      4:2, 2317, 2462
      4:3, 4, 1016
      4:5, 3444
      4:7, 1050
      4:8, 636

    Titus, 2:5, 3483

    Hebrews, 1:11, 12, 2331
      1:12, 2329
      1:14, 585, 2491
      2:14, 1917
      3:15, 3249
      5:14, 2425
      6:12, 972
      10:16, 1628
      10:25, 3429
      11:1, 1023
      11:4, 1542, 1612, 2757
      11:16, 1691
      12:1, 3038
      12:2, 2322
      12:11, 45, 3299
      12:13, 23
      13:2, 1447, 3043
      13:5, 863
      13:6, 909
      13:8, 397
      13:14, 1379, 1425
      13:16, 1192

    James, 1:13, 3192
      1:14, 1521
      1:15, 2956, 2962
      1:17, 1251, 1278
      1:23, 24, 2929, 3178
      1:27, 2596
      2:2–4, 387
      2:10, 1116, 2601
      2:16, 2906
      2:17, 1047
      2:26, 2442
      3:6, 3256
      3:8, 3255
      4:3, 144
      4:13, 288
      4:13, 14, 3244
      4:14, 3253
      5:20, 2353, 2629

    1 Peter, 1:25, 236
      2:17, 1896
      3:4, 113
      3:9, 1267
      3:13, 906, 956, 1622
      3:15, 2552, 2620
      3:19, 2513
      5:6, 1459
      5:7, 2191, 2908
      5:8, 3283

    2 Peter, 1:4, 2548
      1:5, 1777
      1:10, 2426
      1:20, 1590
      3:11, 3279
      3:13, 14, 106
      3:18, 1229

    1 John, 1:5, 1852
      1:7, 1836
      3:2, 1178
      3:14, 1800
      3:16, 2917
      4:7, 416, 1910
      4:18, 1907

    Jude, 3, 127
      12, 2643
      16, 1083
      20, 2439

    Revelation, 2:10, 842
      3:1, 433, 450, 3051
      3:16, 850
      3:19, 779
      3:20, 3475
      4:10, 1415
      5:12, 403


      7:14, 2807
      13:10, 1808
      19:16, 398
      20:13, 2630
      21:1, 3278
      21:10, 294


Transcriber’s Notes:

1. Obvious printers’, punctuation and spelling errors have been
corrected silently.

2. Where hyphenation is in doubt, it has been retained as in the
original.

3. Some hyphenated and non-hyphenated versions of the same words have
been retained as in the original.

4. Where appropriate, the original spelling has been retained.

5. Italics are shown as _xxx_.

6. Bold print is shown as =xxx=.








*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 74575 ***
